It's official: U.S. President Barack Obama wants lawmakers to weigh in on whether to use military force in Syria.
In a televised address from the White House Rose Garden earlier Saturday, the president said he would take his case to Congress, not because he has to -- but because he wants to.
Obama's remarks came shortly after U.N. inspectors left Syria, carrying evidence that will determine whether chemical weapons were used in an attack early last week in a Damascus suburb.
Top U.S. officials have said there's no doubt that the Syrian government was behind it, while Syrian officials have denied responsibility and blamed jihadists fighting with the rebels.
The Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, which nine of the inspectors belong to, said Saturday that it could take up to three weeks to analyze the evidence they collected.
On Saturday, Obama proposed what he said would be a limited military action against Syrian President Bashar al-Assad.
Syria's alleged use of chemical weapons earlier this month "is an assault on human dignity," the president said.
It's unclear.
Meanwhile, as uncertainty loomed over how Congress would weigh in, U.S. military officials said they remained at the ready.
"So we are quite concerned."
British Prime Minister David Cameron, whose own attempt to get lawmakers in his country to support military action in Syria failed earlier this week, responded to Obama's speech in a Twitter post Saturday.
"The main reason Obama is turning to the Congress:  the military operation did not get enough support either in the world, among allies of the US or in the United States itself," Alexei Pushkov, chairman of the international-affairs committee of the Russian State Duma, said in a Twitter post.
After Obama's speech, a military and political analyst on Syrian state TV said Obama is "embarrassed" that Russia opposes military action against Syria, is "crying for help" for someone to come to his rescue and is facing two defeats -- on the political and military levels.
A top Syrian diplomat told the state television network that Obama was facing pressure to take military action from Israel, Turkey, some Arabs and right-wing extremists in the United States.
On Saturday, Obama said "all told, well over 1,000 people were murdered."