Specter died of complications from non-Hodgkin's lymphoma at his home in Philadelphia, his family said.
Specter was elected to the Senate in 1980 and represented Pennsylvania for 30 years, longer than anyone in the state's history.
And his name is synonymous with Pennsylvania, an idiosyncratic state that pushes and pulls between the two parties, and his home, the staunchly Democratic city of Philadelphia.
"From his days stamping out corruption as a prosecutor in Philadelphia to his three decades of service in the Senate, Arlen was fiercely independent -- never putting party or ideology ahead of the people he was chosen to serve," Obama said in a written statement on Specter's death.
"There isn't any doubt in many respects he was an unusual politician," Madonna said.
...
"The last thing you would have thought about Arlen Specter was that he was born in Kansas," Madonna said.
After graduating from Russell High School in 1947, Specter first went to the University of Oklahoma.
He earned a bachelor's degree in international relations in 1951 from the University of Pennsylvania, in Philadelphia, where he graduated Phi Beta Kappa.
After Yale, he started practicing law and became an assistant district attorney in Philadelphia.
Specter ran for the U.S. Senate in 1976, but he was defeated in the Republican primary by John Heinz.
"During his tenure in the Senate, Specter championed Pennsylvania's economy and took an active interest in foreign affairs, meeting with dozens of world leaders as well as supporting appropriations to fight the global HIV/AIDS pandemic and backing free trade agreements between the U.S. and under-developed countries," according to a bio from the University of Pennsylvania Law School.
Specter brought more financial resources to Pennsylvania than anyone in the state, working with mayors and other local leaders to help them get grants and aid, Madonna said.
"No member of Congress shaped the Supreme Court more than he did," Madonna said.
Specter straddled right and left.
Despite his longtime membership in the Republican Party, Specter became more alienated from the party as it grew more conservative.
But in 2010, when he ran for re-election, Specter lost the Democratic primary to Rep. Joe Sestak.
After the loss, Specter moved from the halls of Congress to those of academia, taking on a new role at the University of Pennsylvania Law School as an adjunct professor.
"From his role in sinking Robert Bork's Supreme Court nomination to his cross-examination of Anita Hill, from stem-cell research to the impeachment of Bill Clinton, Specter's greatest talent may be his unique ability to put himself -- somehow, some way -- in the center of the nation's most important debates," the article said.