Bobby Jindal said Friday.
The Mississippi River Commission has advised a "slow opening," and the flood would spread gradually over several days, the Corps said.
The National Guard worked around the clock to construct a flood barrier in Morgan City, Louisiana, where the Atchafalaya River was already 3.15 feet above flood stage, according to the National Weather Service.
Officials believe that the levees will protect the city from flooding, but some are taking preliminary precautions, she said.
Meanwhile, in the Arkansas town of Helena, the river crested at 56.5 feet -- 12.5 feet above flood stage, according to the National Weather Service.
To help New Orleans, the Army Corps of Engineers said Friday that it will open 52 more bays at the Bonnet Carre Spillway just north of the city, diverting water into Lake Pontchartrain.
The National Weather Service said that as of Friday morning, the river was at 16.8 feet in New Orleans, just a fraction below flood stage.
Armstrong said he expected higher water Friday, with more homes affected.
"We estimate that every home built on the river side of the levee from Memphis all the way to the Louisiana line is flooded," said Mike Womack, executive director of the Mississippi Emergency Management Agency.
That level is expected to be reached Monday, said Charlie Tindall, attorney for the Board of Mississippi Levee Commissioners.
"It's in about 10 feet of water," Dyersburg, Tennessee, farmer Jimmy Moody said of his 440 acres of winter wheat, which was to be harvested in the coming month.
Some officials said Thursday that spillover effects resulting from the flood could threaten other industries.
The Mississippi River is expected to crest at 26.6 feet in Taft on May 23.
"It would impact every industry along the river," Welchel said.
Moore said that after a flood destroyed all of his furniture last year, he decided to move everything he owned into rented storage space.
"We'll do what we've got to do and keep praying," Moore said, holding back tears.