Factory DVD producer Brian Ward was asking fans how much interest they would have in such a release and what they would like to see on it.
"I'm really excited about it," said Michael Albert of Bear, Delaware, moderator of Seibertron.com, a "Transformers" community site that boasts as many as 300,000 page views per day (mostly by fans whose interest in "Robots in Disguise" goes well beyond one of the biggest box office successes of the year, "Transformers: Dark of the Moon," and its predecessors).
"This is the first time we've gotten a legitimate release of this Japanese series.
"It really is interesting to see just how the Japanese and their culture played into a series that for most of us we've only known as straightforward Autobots vs Decepticons," said Ward, a "Transformers" fan himself who has produced all of the Shout!
"After 'Headmasters' is over, the Transformers are not so much sentient robots but having human drivers.
"It's interesting to watch those characters change culturally."
There are some fans who simply do not want to watch subtitles.
Kim Manning, head programmer for Adult Swim (which is owned by Time Warner, also owner of CNN), and one of the top people responsible for what anime series are seen in the United States, said that every effort is made to get dubbed versions.
"We saw the releases that had come out in the U.K. and Australia and saw that the subtitles there weren't entirely accurate, and in some cases didn't make sense," said Ward.
The translation is about as close as one can get to an accurate translation of what's being said in Japanese."
It was almost the equivalent of watching a Saturday afternoon martial arts movie dub, and that's certainly not something we wanted to do with a property as beloved as 'Transformers,' so we opted out of original dubs and went for brand new subtitles."
"People who have not seen it before might be disappointed in the subtitles, but rest assured [that the existing dubs] are that horrible," said Seibertron.com founder Ryan Yzquierdo, from Chicago, Illinois.
The other Takara series will be released in the near future as "The Japanese Collection," though a production delay has postponed its release for several weeks.
As for the importance of the release of "Headmasters" specifically, Ward said, "It gives [fans] something definitive, something approved by Hasbro.
These were things that were almost, for lack of a better word, lost to American audiences."