The woman involved -- Mandi Hamlin -- told reporters earlier Friday she was humiliated by last month's incident, in which she was forced to painfully remove the piercings behind a curtain as she heard snickers from male TSA officers nearby.
Hamlin and her lawyer, celebrity attorney Gloria Allred, said they want a public apology from the agency, as well as a guarantee that future passengers with piercings will be treated with dignity and respect.
Allred pointed out that TSA's Web site says passengers with piercings can undergo a pat-down inspection if they do not want to take their piercings out -- an option she said Hamlin was never offered.
TSA said in its statement it acknowledges "that our procedures caused difficulty for the passenger involved and regrets (the) situation in which she found herself.
"Ms. Hamlin did not want to remove her nipple piercings," Allred said, reading from a letter she sent TSA.
More officers were called over, and the group grew to four male and two female TSA officers, according to Hamlin.
The officers insisted that Hamlin remove the nipple rings, Allred said.
She eventually was taken to a private area behind a curtain to remove the piercings, Allred said.
"As Ms. Hamlin struggled to remove the piercing, behind the curtain she could hear a growing number of predominately male TSA officers snickering in the background," Allred said in the letter.
She offered to remove it, Allred said, but an officer told her it was not necessary because he could see it.
In a statement earlier Friday, the TSA said it "is well aware of terrorists' interest in hiding dangerous items in sensitive areas of the body.
Hamlin said she had to visit the person who originally pierced her nipples to get the rings reinserted, and said the process was excruciatingly painful because of the scar tissue that had formed.
"We hope that means they're going to jump on this and do something about it," she said.
Hamlin said she will continue to fly but will avoid the Lubbock airport.