Officers sent to check on Paul Ciancia's welfare arrived at his apartment less than an hour after the shooting started, police said Monday.
According to someone who knew Ciancia and his three roommates well, Ciancia began asking for a ride to the airport days before the shooting.
On Friday, Ciancia burst into a roommate's room and demanded a ride to the airport immediately, said the source, who spoke to CNN on the condition of anonymity.
Although Ciancia has no known history of mental illness, he said in the texts that he was unhappy, and the messages were alarming enough that Ciancia's father decided to call police.
It sounded as if Paul Ciancia in California was thinking about harming himself, so obviously I knew I needed to make a phone call to the LAPD," Pennsville Police Chief Allen Cummings told CNN's Jake Tapper on Monday.
Andy Smith says police were first called to check on Ciancia at 10:06 a.m. Officers arrived at his apartment six minutes later, according to Smith.
He said police had arrived at Ciancia's apartment about 45 minutes after the suspect had left for the airport.
Witnesses said he went from person to person, asking, "Are you TSA?"
"He took pride in his duty for the American public and for the TSA mission," said his wife, Ana Hernandez.
"I turned around and there was a gunman," he said.
So it was airport police officers who eventually shot Ciancia multiple times in the chest, also striking him in the face and neck.
Airport Police Chief Patrick Gannon said the FBI told him that his officers were 60 seconds behind Ciancia.
"The responsibility for protecting airport security is not a TSA function but something that I think we need to certainly examine, given what happened in Los Angeles," he said.
On Saturday, an additional 40 flights were affected, including 30 that were canceled, involving about 4,000 passengers, according to Los Angeles International Airport.
"It is most important for us as a family to express our deep and sincere sympathy to the Hernandez family," the Ciancia family said.
The Ciancia family said they would "continue to love and care for" Paul.
While we do not mean to minimize the grief and distress experienced by many other families, we hope that the public will understand that this is a very difficult time for our family, too," the family said.
TSA Administrator John Pistole said the shooting has prompted a review of security protocol with partner agencies.