Of course we are a copycat of Wikipedia but we have a lot of innovations, and we do a lot of work here in China so it is totally different actually," Pan told CNN.
In recent months, Wales has held a series of meetings with officials from the State Council Information Office, the government body charged with internet censorship in China, to establish a dialogue between the Wikipedia community and Chinese government.
What is a big concern for Wales is whether Wikipedia can compete with the country's two homegrown encyclopedia websites that emerged while Wikipedia was blocked: Hudong.com and Baidu Baike, an online knowledge sharing site launched by Baidu, the No.
One challenge Wikipedia faces is it lacks the brand recognition in China that is otherwise nearly universal.
He had no idea what Wikipedia was.
"I think I am going to have to come to China a lot and do interviews so people can learn about Wikipedia," said Wales.
"There's, in fact, no reason for China to use Wikipedia, a service based 'out there,'" Baidu's chief scientist William Chang said at a 2008 internet conference in Beijing.
Baidu Baike has nearly 2 million entries; Chinese Wikipedia has just 280,000 and over 700 thousand members.
Nearly 100 million Chinese netizens regularly visit online bulletin boards, according to research from China Internet Network Information Center.
Wikipedia uses a reputation system to promote its members based on their participation on the website and the quality of the content they contribute.
"The entry barrier is really high on Wikipedia for Chinese users," said Pan.
said Wales.
Far better for China and for us."
Which is why in the long run many Chinese Wikipedians say their website will win.
However Pan said Hudong's content, in time, will improve if the Chinese government continues to gradually loosen its grip on the internet.
Wales also said Wikipedia's reemergence in China, albeit at times unreliable, is a sign that Beijing's web policy is changing.
"I don't want to be the Jimmy Wales of China.
That is our dream actually."