CARL AZUZ, CNN STUDENT NEWS ANCHOR: A problem that won't be solved, even if the solution is clear.
When a weather emergency is called in New York, which gets more than two feet of snow a year, you know it's bad.
Forecasters expect 24 inches in some areas.
MARTIN SAVIDGE, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Officials knew Atlanta wasn't prepared for the storm.
SAVIDGE: Atlanta has relied on two basic facts -- southern snowstorms are rare, and the best way to get rid of the snow is to simply let it melt.
SAVIDGE: Cunningham says because a convention might have been snowed out doesn't mean the city lost money.
What about all those businesses who couldn't work because their employees couldn't get in?
CUNNINGHAM [ON PHONE]: There is certainly some lost income associated with hourly workers not being able to get in and get paid.
SAVIDGE: And that's not likely to happen in this economy.
REED: My answer right now is no.
AZUZ: A tone of coming together at the U.S. House of Representatives.
President Obama left Washington, D.C. for Tucson, Arizona yesterday.
AZUZ: We're turning now to our Facebook page, for some of your comments on the Arizona shooting.
And Aubrey states, "when things like this happen, I often wonder what were the signs that he was going to do this, and why could no one see them?"
You can talk to us at Facebook.com/cnnstudentnews.
CNN STUDENT NEWS: Is This Legit?
And it's not just the people in the middle of these floods who've been affected.
PHIL BLACK, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: The Brisbane river churned swiftly, sweeping away boats, their jetties and other huge pieces of debris.
But this was just the beginning.
BLACK: All along the river people desperately packed what they could into cars and trailers.
They raced the water, and some kept going even when they were clearly falling behind.
BLACK: We rowed with Adam Beswick to his home, past others with water already up to the ceiling.
BLACK: And all of this is just one street.
More proof of just how quickly this water is coming in.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We couldn't evacuate before and we just couldn't go anywhere so we ended up calling the police.
Phil Black, CNN, Brisbane, Australia.
First: Have your teacher take an original photo of your school.
AZUZ: If you've ever visited us here at the CNN Center, you've been only a snowball's throw, from the world famous Peachtree Street.
AZUZ: At least as far as ice-see it.
I'm Carl Azuz!