You can find it here.
Apparently, plenty.
Because we're gluttons for punishment -- or maybe just because we think we actually can please all of the people all of the time -- we're back for round two.
Boardwalks have been enhancing beachside amusement since long before the Drifters' released their classic "Under the Boardwalk" in 1964.
2.
One of the most inspiring American experiences is witnessing the culture of the first Americans come alive in a spectacle of swirling, pulsing color.
Wrigley Field, Chicago
Wrigley Field in Chicago, regardless of denomination, is their Vatican.
There's truly no better place to watch a game if you want a direct link to nearly a century of baseball history.
4.
While it doesn't get much more American than the Super Bowl, we'd argue that the most enjoyable, purest way to experience the unique American-branded mixture of militant strategics, refined athleticism, brute force and exploitation of young labor is at a college football game.
Pretty much any stadium will do, but a game experience doesn't get much better than at Bryant-Denny Stadium in Tuscaloosa, Alabama, home of the reigning national champion Alabama Crimson Tide.
There's one more sporting event we have to include on the list.
Also, those races don't have a traditional drink made of bourbon (mint julep), nor do they encourage everyone to dress like a flamboyant Southern aristocrat.
The first Woodstock Music & Art Fair in 1969 was one of the most pivotal moments in American cultural history.
Before you say Bonnaroo, Coachella, Lollapalooza or any other trendy music festival -- each of which is run by the Man -- let us stop you.
Essentially 50,000 creative spirits gather in one of the most desolate areas in the continental United States to wear bizarre clothes, make art, do drugs, experience a new form of communal living, have a hell of a lot of fun and let their freak flags fly.
Almost every candidate has roots in other countries, but, of course, that's what makes them American.
There are thousands of spectacular soul food restaurants -- many of the best are in the South -- but Sylvia's in New York is maybe the most well known.
While we're in the region, one of America's great art forms, Blues music, grew up in the juke joints of the South.
Sure, other countries have Christmas lights (or fairy lights, in the UK), but no one else takes it quite as seriously as Americans.
But the greatest displays of holiday spirit can be seen in more rural areas.
Americans know how to make praising Jesus memorable.
Every week his message is broadcast to 7 million viewers in more than 100 countries.