CARL AZUZ, CNN STUDENT NEWS ANCHOR: I'm Carl Azuz and you're watching CNN Student News!
AZUZ: That's where authorities are trying to put out a wildfire that's been burning for a couple days now.
Around 3,500 people were told to leave their homes, and school was canceled in the area.
This storm made landfall near Brownsville.
And in the southern part of the state, Hermine threatened what are called "storm surges."
TOMEKA JONES, CNN STUDENT NEWS: Just the facts.
AZUZ: The Quran is a big part of a protest that's scheduled for this Saturday.
AZUZ: A lot of people are criticizing this idea to burn Qurans.
As religious leaders in this great country, we have come together in our nation's capital to denounce categorically the derision, misinformation and outright bigotry being directed against America's Muslim community.
We've put up a post on our blog at CNNStudentNews.com where you can talk this story, you can talk about how you feel about it.
Worldwide, one out of every 10 adults is illiterate.
AZUZ: Some surprising numbers, and those are part of the reason why the United Nations created International Literacy Day.
In Japan, one principal is running his school like a business.
KYUNG LAH, CNN CORRESPONDENT, TOKYO: The school day begins at Wada Junior High with drills; math drills, as fast as these kids can do them.
Principal Akihisa Shirota believes it so much, he joins the students.
"Principals are people who became teachers right after graduating from college," says Shirota.
He runs the school more like a corporation; students, his workers.
LAH: Every single one.
In the three years since Shirota has been principal, the school claims higher test scores.
It's 6:40 in the evening and students are still here at Wada Junior High School.
Critics call this too tough for a public school, but Shirota says the old must give way to new thinking.
AZUZ: Well, it is time for our first field trip of the school year: Off the Beaten Path.
AZUZ: Honestly, who doesn't dream of being a champion arm wrestler?
And for some, it's in the face.
AZUZ: But we're not still talking about arm wrestling.
AZUZ: But if a "haybale obstacle course" isn't your speed, saddle up for a one-wheeled whirl across the Brooklyn Bridge!
So without a wheel, why not just turn yourself around at a Hawkeye State Hokey Pokey?
To get this many people over age 8 to participate, you must be trying to set a record.
AZUZ: A world record is always cool, even if group dances are a little hokey.
Have a great one.