The surprisingly fast-moving Republican presidential contest, kicked off by Jeb Bush shortly after the New Year and accelerated by the unexpected re-emergence of Mitt Romney, is putting pressure on Christie, who was once the Republican establishment's favorite.
"There is big advantage to moving first, and when you're a whale like both Jeb and Romney are, and you jump into that pool first, its hard for anyone else to squeeze in," said B. Wayne Hughes, a California billionaire and Republican donor who has not committed to supporting a candidate.
But their moves are also complicating things for Christie, who is still expected to launch a presidential bid but is moving at a much slower place than Bush or Romney.
Christie's team insists the Romney and Bush developments have had little bearing on his decision-making process — or his ability to fund a potential campaign.
"The last couple of weeks actually had no impact," said one Christie confidante, granted anonymity to discuss the 2016 machinations with some candor.
He remains on the RGA's executive committee, and plans to connect with many of the same donors at February gathering of the RGA in Washington.
No candidate — even ones with the names Bush and Romney — can take the donor world for granted, the Christie adviser insisted.
Everybody will be courting those folks, but I think the smart folks will take their time."
Once the donor primary ends and the actual primary begins, Christie may be on better footing in a race against Bush and Romney.
"There is room in the primary for anyone who has enough resources," said Tom Rath, a longtime New Hampshire power broker and Romney ally.
Christie, too, is a natural retail campaigner and perhaps the best political performer of anyone in the Republican field.
"He is kind of a hell-raiser, and nobody is going to say that about Jeb Bush or Mitt Romney," said Leighton Lord, a South Carolina attorney who hosted a reception for Christie in the early primary state this week.
Though he's been slower than Bush or Romney when it comes to hiring staff and building out a campaign, Christie is still looking and sounding very much like a candidate-in-waiting.
Christie can afford to wait longer than other candidates, his supporters said, in part because of his fame.
Nikki Haley, Christie posed for selfies with top elected officials, including the Lieutenant Governor and Attorney General, before dropping by a crowded GOP meet-and-greet arranged by Lord and other Republicans.
"He said something to the effect of, 'Today is Nikki Haley's day, but maybe it will be Chris Christie's day in South Carolina soon," the source told CNN.
"My honor to introduce Chris Christie in South Carolina today," he wrote.