More than 3,500 hours of competition from London will be crammed into just 17 days.
After years of tape-delayed broadcasts and online video, NBC has caught on that viewers want to follow the Olympics on multiple devices in real time, and is offering the live options in addition to its regular television programming.
You will be prompted on the NBC site and in NBC apps to choose your provider from a list and log in with your official username and password in order to access any live streams.
NBC wants mobile and online options to complement the TV coverage, not replace it.
The site is also providing live streams of any sport to cable, satellite or telco TV subscribers.
Called LiveExtra, the service will live stream some Olympic trials and every single Olympic sport.
You can also download one of the official apps to watch official NBC Olympic video on your iOS or Android device.
NBC created two official apps for Android and Apple mobile devices, NBC Olympics and NBC Olympics Live Extra, and both are free to download.
Official London 2012: Results App has live updates of results, as well as schedules, news, background on sports and athlete profiles.
The free BBC Olympic iOS and Android app will have a steady stream of quality Olympics news, including a running tally of medals won and live reporting from the BBC journalists attending events.
You can narrow it down to just the events you're interested in and follow those feeds (say @L2012Trampoline or @L2012Judo), or keep an eye on all of them at once by following the London 2012 official Twitter list of automated feeds.
There's also an official London 2012 Facebook page you can like to get updates.
With all the content online, on TV and on social media, keeping up with the Olympics won't be nearly as much of a challenge as avoiding spoilers.
If you don't have cable, you can still tune into NBC over the air for nearly round-the-clock coverage, including the four-hour prime-time broadcast that will show the most popular events mixed in with the usual profiles and athlete interviews.