Dorner blames one retired officer for bungling his appeal to get his job back in an 11-page manifesto, in which he also complained of mistreatment by the LAPD.
A day earlier, Irvine police named Dorner a suspect in the double slayings Sunday of a woman -- identified by Los Angeles police as the daughter of a retired LAPD officer -- and her fiance.
In Torrance, LAPD officers guarding one of Dorner's alleged targets mistakenly opened fire on a blue pickup truck that resembled one Dorner was thought to be driving, said Los Angeles police Chief Charlie Beck.
Police have good reason to be fearful, the chief said.
We trained him," Beck said.
Police confirmed that the vehicle, which was burnt out when it was found, belonged to Dorner by its vehicle identification number, San Bernardino County Sheriff John McMahon said.
It all started Sunday when Dorner allegedly killed two people in Irvine, according to police.
In his manifesto, Dorner said Quan handled his appeal.
Dorner likely had access to the hotel because he'd been honorably discharged from the Navy Reserve, said the Navy spokesman.
Police in San Diego say a man who could have been Dorner tried to hijack a boat there on Wednesday.
There, a pair of LAPD officers on a protection detail were flagged down by a citizen who reported seeing the suspect's vehicle, LAPD Deputy Chief Jose Perez said.
About 20 minutes later, two police officers were in their car at a stop light in Riverside when Dorner allegedly pulled up beside them.
A good Samaritan picked up one of their police radios and called dispatchers to send help, Riverside police said.
The package also contained a coin wrapped in duct tape.
Bratton headed the LAPD at the time Dorner was dismissed.
Two weeks later, Dorner accused his training officer of kicking the man after he'd given up.
Dorner claims he was wrongly ousted for blowing the whistle on what he insists was police abuse.
Beck, the Los Angeles police chief, said Thursday that Dorner's case had been "thoroughly reviewed" and said the department would not apologize to Dorner or clear his name.
Such a chilling warning prompted Los Angeles police to set up 40 protective details in an effort to safeguard people listed in Dorner's letter, Beck said.
CNN's AnneClaire Stapleton, Sara Weisfeldt, Barbara Starr, Pete Janos, Mallory Simon and Deanna Hackney contributed to this report.