(CNN) -- London may be the center of attention this summer, but venture beyond the Olympic Stadium and you'll find the real British Isles, a world of ancient thatched cottages, monumental castles, elegant university towns and jagged peaks.
Leading members of the arts and crafts movement were so enamored by the town they made it their home in the early 20th century, and their founder, William Morris, settled in nearby Kelmscott in a gloriously unassuming riverside mansion.
For the best pint, head to the Falkland Arms in Great Tew, a place so special I barely wish to share it.
Its mesmerizing fan-vaulted ceiling is best appreciated during Evensong when you can listen to the college's celebrated choir as you ponder your place in the universe.
England's largest protected outdoor playground, the Lake District National Park, is a wild and winsome place full of craggy peaks, glittering lakes and moody fells.
The region provided ample inspiration for some of England's finest writers and poets, and today you can follow the William Wordsworth trail from his childhood home in Cockermouth to tiny Dove Cottage in Grasmere, and the more tranquil Rydal Mount in Ambleside, where you can sit in the house where he once tested his verse.
Instead head for Coniston Water, where a trip on the restored 19th-century Steam Yacht Gondola offers captivating views of the surrounding hills and drops you off at Brantwood, the fascinating former home of John Ruskin, Victorian art critic, philosopher and philanthropist.
The mercurial landscape of the Cairngorms National Park makes an excellent place to start.
North Wales is one of the country's most spectacular and traditional regions.
Capel Curig makes a good base for walkers and climbers, but history buffs should head to one of the magnificent medieval castles that dot the area.
A short trip south and you enter an entirely different world at the whimsical Italianate village of Portmeirion.
Head out from the tourist honeypot of Killarney around the Ring of Kerry with its glorious views, sandy beaches and ancient ruins.
Alternatively, you could take a trip in a pony and trap across the beautiful Gap of Dunloe which is flanked by Ireland's highest mountains, the McGillycuddy's Reeks.
Northern Ireland's troubled reputation has been hard to shake off, but wander this way and you'll be rewarded with the peace and tranquility of a place the world has yet to discover.
Head east to reach Carrick-a-Rede, where a narrow swaying rope bridge connects the mainland to a little island traditionally known for its salmon fishing, or go west to the dramatic ruins of Dunluce Castle.