Untold thousands more in this country were living with the human immunodeficiency virus, or HIV.
For those of us caring for people with AIDS, it was a dark time.
Two decades later, much has changed.
Scientifically proven prevention approaches -- education and outreach to at-risk populations, voluntary HIV testing and counseling, condom distribution, prevention of HIV transmission from mother to baby, harm reduction approaches for drug abusers, mass-media campaigns and the screening of donated blood -- have been deployed with great success in the United States and many other countries.
Much has been accomplished in the fight against HIV/AIDS from scientific, medical and public health standpoints.
Globally, 33 million people are living with HIV infection, most of them in the developing world.
In low- and middle-income countries, less than one-third of people in need of anti-HIV therapy are receiving it, and only one in five people at risk of HIV infection have access to prevention services.
Here in the United States, more than one-fifth of people living with HIV are unaware of their infection and not receiving appropriate care for their own health or the prevention services that would help them avoid transmitting the virus to others.
Barriers to implementation of HIV testing guidelines, such as state, local or agency regulations that conflict with the recommendations, variability in payment coverage for the test, and concerns about the stigma and discrimination that may accompany an HIV diagnosis, must be addressed.
One exciting concept is pre-exposure prophylaxis or PrEP, giving preventive doses of anti-HIV drugs to individuals who are at an increased risk of HIV infection.
We must solve the mystery of how to prompt the human body to produce a protective immune response against HIV, which natural infection with the virus seems unable to do.
On this World AIDS Day, we should be proud of the many scientific advances that have been made in the fight against HIV/AIDS.
Developing HIV interventions and delivering them to the people who need them will require scientific and public health vision, and dedication from all sectors of society, in good times and bad.