(Mental Floss) -- There was a time when movie props were worthless.
It's believed there were six or seven pairs of Dorothy's famous ruby red slippers made for the production of the 1939 film "The Wizard of Oz".
For now, the case remains open, and the shoes are still at-large.
One of the Captain America bikes was destroyed during filming, while the other three motorcycles were stolen from a storage garage before the film was even in the can.
3.
In October 2008, one of these props (it's unclear which one it was) was discovered missing from its display case at Elstree Studios in Hertfordshire, England.
The case of the missing "Maltese Falcon"
For promotional purposes, plaster casts of the bird were made upon the film's release, and Elisha Cook, Jr., a character actor who played a henchman in the film, got his hands on one.
After the falcon went missing, John's Grill offered a no-questions-asked reward of $25,000 to the person who brought it back, but no one came forward.
With that much security, the next time someone messes with this Maltese Falcon, it won't take Sam Spade to crack the case.
Well, that's one way to get an Oscar
After reporting his find to police, Fulgear collected a $50,000 reward from Roadway Express, but the other men didn't make out quite so well.
As for the three missing Oscars, one was found in 2003 during a Miami drug raid, but the other two are still out there somewhere.
Police received a tip from the ex-wife of a former security guard at Sony, Jeffrey Gustafson, who said he might be involved in the theft.
Police searched Gustafson's home and found records indicating that one costume was at a friend's house, two were traced to a collector in New York, and the last one was in the collection of a man in Japan.
7.
These knock-offs were so close to the ones used in the film that they must have been created using molds taken from the missing, now presumed stolen, dummy gun.
While it's certain the thief made a pretty penny by selling the dummy gun, he would have surely been better off stealing the custom-made gun instead -- it sold at auction in 2009 for $270,000.