The discovery of a slain Palestinian teen in Jerusalem early Wednesday further inflamed tensions in a region already unsettled over the killings of three Israeli teens, not to mention decades of entrenched enmity between all sides.
Those who spoke out passionately included an uncle of one of the three Israeli teens whose bodies were found earlier this week.
Israeli authorities are probing Wednesday's death, with police spokesman Micky Rosenfeld tweeting this effort will try to determine if it is a "criminal or nationalistic" act -- the latter term referring to a politically motivated act in retaliation for the Israeli  teens' killings.
Israel is a country of law and everyone is ordered to act according to the law."
"Settlers" kidnapped the teenager and his body "was charred and bore signs of violence," according to the Palestinian state news agency WAFA.
A similar claim was made to Haaretz by Knesset member Ahmed Tibi.
"There's no difference between a Jewish resident of Jerusalem or an Arab resident of Jerusalem," the spokesman said.
Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas, who heads the Fatah party and is based in the West Bank, called Mohammad Abu Khedair's father and promised that those behind his abduction and death will be brought to justice, WAFA, the Palestinian state news agency, reported.
Some protesters attacked two Palestinians whom they mistook for undercover Israeli police, The Jerusalem Post reported.
The clashes expanded and continued through midnight in the Palestinian neighborhood, with a large amount of Israeli forces on hand.
But his father said Thursday he was still waiting to hear from Israeli authorities when the body would be handed over to the family.
Rockets from the Palestinian territory into Israel was met by at least eight airstrikes within about an hour early Thursday.
Israel Defense Forces said the airstrikes -- going after 15 Hamas targets -- were in response to the firing of more than 20 rockets into Israel since Wednesday.
It warned that if Netanyahu "brings a war on Gaza, the gates of hell will open to him."
"They sanctify death; we sanctify life.