Chinese authorities had dragged her out of her home and down four flights of stairs, she said, restraining and beating her husband as he tried to come to her aid.
Becoming pregnant with a second child, in violation of China's one-child policy.
...
The issue of forced abortions -- and in some cases, forced sterilizations -- in China has seized the spotlight in recent days with news of escaped activist Chen Guangcheng.
"Forced abortion is not a choice," Littlejohn said.
Since its implementation in 1979, the one-child policy has prevented more than 400 million births in China, according to China's National Population and Family Planning Commission.
In some cases, advocates say, fetuses identified as female are aborted, or midwives strangle a female infant with the umbilical cord during delivery, identifying the baby as "stillborn," according to All Girls Allowed, a nonprofit group that aims to end female "gendercide," educate abandoned girls, rescue trafficked children and defend women's reproductive rights.
In 2010, China's sex ratio at birth was 118 boys for every 100 girls, the news agency said.
The one-child policy could contribute to China's high rate of female suicide, according to All Girls Allowed.
China is the only country in the world where the female suicide rate is higher than that of men -- some 500 women a day, the group said, citing statistics from the World Health Organization and the U.S. State Department.
In October 2011, a woman who was six months pregnant died during a forced abortion in eastern China, according to Women's Rights Without Frontiers.
In one example from October 2010, the commission said, a woman in southeastern China who was eight months pregnant with her second child was kidnapped and detained for 40 hours.
Her husband reportedly was not permitted to see her during this time, the commission said.
A woman's family members, including her husband, parents, in-laws or siblings, may also be targeted for violations of the policy, according to Women's Rights Without Borders, which published a 2005 report compiled from Chen's notes into cases he was investigating before his arrest.
Ji told lawmakers her first forced abortion was in 2003, after officials said she and her husband would be fined $31,000 for their second child and fired from their jobs.
"The doctor told me that I had cervical erosion, likely due to the poor medical conditions of my forced abortions," she said.
Her husband was later arrested, she said, and she was given a "serious administrative warning" at her job and fined six months' pay.
Liu had to report to the factory clinic each month for an exam to make sure she had not removed the IUD on her own or become pregnant again, she said.
Liu was able to move to the United States and she and her husband reconciled after a divorce.
"But I know in my homeland, China, there are millions of women who are suffering as I did.