(CNN) -- Gabriel García Márquez, the influential, Nobel Prize-winning author of "One Hundred Years of Solitude" and "Love in the Time of Cholera," has died, his family and officials said.
Indeed, Chilean poet Pablo Neruda told Time that "One Hundred Years of Solitude" was "the greatest revelation in the Spanish language since the Don Quixote of Cervantes."
He's just as admired in Mexico as he is in (his native) Colombia, all of Latin America and throughout the world," Ortiz told CNN en Español.
"I feel Latin American from whatever country, but I have never renounced the nostalgia of my homeland: Aracataca, to which I returned one day and discovered that between reality and nostalgia was the raw material for my work," reads a mural quoting the author outside of town.
García Márquez's early life was shaped by both familial and political conflict.
García Márquez spent his early childhood with his grandparents while his parents pursued a living in the coastal city of Barranquilla.
The influence is obvious in García Márquez's works, particularly "One Hundred Years of Solitude."
Writing ended up taking precedence: When La Violencia broke out, García Márquez started contributing stories to a local newspaper and eventually became a columnist.
For years, García Márquez had been writing and publishing fiction, including short stories in Latin American journals and a handful of longer works, including "Leaf Storm," which was published in 1955.
It is a tapestry of almost biblical proportions in which reality and spirit swirl and merge, a world unto itself -- as well as a commentary on the politics and history of the world at large.
García Márquez worked on "Solitude" tirelessly, selling off family items, living on credit, smoking up a nicotine frenzy.
The book didn't ease all of García Márquez's problems, however.
"I was saddened to learn of the passing of Gabriel García Márquez," he said in a statement.
García Márquez's ensuing works were generally praised.
García Márquez's style and impact have been widespread.
What I didn't like about journalism before were the working conditions," he told The Paris Review.
"On behalf of Mexico, I would like to express my sorrow for the passing of one of the greatest writers of our time, Gabriel Garcia Marquez," tweeted Mexican President Enrique Peña Nieto.
Asked about the impact of dreams on his dreamlike writing, he said he'd rather focus on reality.
"I see dreams as part of life in general, but reality is much richer.