Global climate change treaty, scheduled for completion in December, is designed to protect tropical forests.
If eventually enacted, the treaty will include a revolutionary but little-known provision intended to protect remaining tropical forests.
Known as Reduced Emissions from Deforestation and Degradation in developing countries, or REDD, the provision is based on the knowledge that destroying tropical forests contributes to global warming.
Polluters in the developing world would be able to offset their emissions by buying credits for stored forest carbon dioxide.
"Done properly, this is our No.
The system would let nations and industries that are the biggest greenhouse-gas emitters buy carbon credits in tropical forests in South and Central America, Africa, Southeast Asia and other equatorial regions.
Final details of the plan remain uncertain, such as how forest carbon credits would be verified and how the money paid for them would be handled and distributed.
However, both funds are not fully capitalized, pending the successful conclusion of negotiations on the new global climate change treaty.
Now, they say, conserving forests also can contribute to sustainable development, benefiting both nature and people.
The Kyoto treaty created a global carbon market -- but only the carbon storage of newly planted or replanted forests is eligible for credits.
Advocates of a limited scope for REDD say areas with no history of deforestation should be excluded because protecting them won't reduce carbon dioxide emissions.
A Greenpeace report issued in March said including REDD credits in carbon markets would create a glut and drastically cut the price of carbon, resulting in industrial polluters buying cheap credits for offsets instead of reducing their emissions.
The deforestation provision of a climate change treaty could help stem deforestation while providing "badly needed capital flows to some of the poorest countries in the world," he said.
"If there is a deal in Copenhagen and if there is a signaling by industrialized nations that, yes, they will make money available, then you will see developing countries scaling up their readiness," said the World Bank's Bosquet.