(CNN) -- England coach Fabio Capello has been forced to go back on his previously iron-clad rules in selecting his preliminary squad for the World Cup in South Africa.
Liverpool fullback Glen Johnson was named despite being sidelined with injury, while striker Emile Heskey retained his place although he has not been a first-choice selection for his club Aston Villa.
Italy's 2006 World Cup-winning coach Marcelo Lippi has stuck with the players who qualified for South Africa in his 30-man squad, resisting suggestions that he should bring in-form Roma striker Francesco Totti out of international retirement.
Lippi omitted his former Juventus player Nicola Legrottaglie despite the defender being included in a recent 29-man training squad.
Veteran Netherlands striker Ruud Van Nistelrooy has missed out on a place in coach Bert van Marwijk's 30-man, potentially signaling the end of the 33-year-old's international career.
Portugal coach Carlos Queiroz named a 24-man squad due to doubts over a couple of players including Real Madrid defender Pepe, who has only just returned to training after being sidelined since December.
Goalkeepers Beto and Daniel Fernandes were named as deputies to Braga's Eduardo despite not playing in any of the qualifiers, but there were no other surprises for the 2006 semifinalists, who will be led by Real superstar Cristiano Ronaldo.
Slovakia defender Martin Skrtel, Filip Holosko and fellow striker Robert Vittek were named in a 29-man squad by coach Vladimir Weiss despite their recent injury problems.
Serbia coach Radomir Antic named just five home-based players in his 30-man squad, with six from English Premier League clubs including key defender Nemanja Vidic of Manchester United.
Switzerland coach Ottmar Hitzfeld named an experienced 23-man squad for the finals, with seven players in reserve.
Defender Philippe Senderos was included despite his lack of action with English club Arsenal, while Sampdoria midfielder Marco Padalino and Kosovo-born Swiss under-21 international Xherdan Shaqiri were also included.