Abortion was legal under common law in the United States leading up to the 19th century, says Leslie Reagan, professor of history and law at the University of Illinois and author of "When Abortion was a Crime."
1821: Connecticut passes the first law in the United States to restrict abortion.
1930s: The number of abortions increases significantly during the Great Depression.
The dangerous practice of unregulated abortions led to a high U.S. maternal mortality rate, Reagan says.
1950s: Hospitals start to form "therapeutic abortion boards" to decide whether doctors can perform an abortion on a case-by-case basis, according to Reagan.
1960s: Pat Maginnis founds the Society for Humane Abortion, later becoming one of the first people to publicly campaign for legalizing abortion.
1962: Sherri Finkbine, an Arizona mother of four, travels to Sweden after a local hospital denies her request for a legal abortion.
Two significant court cases -- People v. Belous and Doe v. Scott, which reached the Supreme Court in 1971 -- declare abortion laws unconstitutional.
1970: By the early 1970s, 20 states have passed abortion reform or repeal laws.
1973: The Supreme Court settles Roe v. Wade and Doe v. Bolton, declaring abortion a right-to-privacy issue and hospital therapeutic abortion boards unconstitutional.
1989: The Supreme Court deals a blow to anti-abortion forces in Webster v. Reproductive Health Services by striking down a law that requires doctors to test the viability of the fetus before an performing any abortion.
1992: Supporters on either side of the abortion issue are left confused after the Supreme Court rules on Planned Parenthood of Southeastern Pennsylvania.
2000: The Food and Drug Administration approves the abortion pill RU-486.
2007: The Supreme Court upholds the partial-birth abortion law 5-4 in the first federal restriction on a particular abortion method since Roe v. Wade.
Tiller, who had been subject to antiabortion protests and harassment for more than 20 years, was the first abortion provider killed since 1998.
Research from the Alan Guttmacher Institute finds the number of abortions is at its lowest level since Roe v. Wade, remaining steady at about 1.2 million reported procedures in 2011, down 25% since the all-time high in 1990.
The ACA prohibits states from including abortion in any essential benefits package and no plan in an insurance exchange is required to offer abortion coverage.
Sources: "When Abortion Was A Crime," by Leslie Reagan; Kaiser Family Foundation; 4,000 Years For Choice; NPR; National Right to Life.