Aransas County, on the eastern coast of Texas, has ordered a mandatory evacuation of all nonessential government employees, becoming the latest county in the state to urge residents to flee.
In Galveston, city officials ordered mandatory evacuations for part of the island town beginning at 7 a.m. Thursday.
Farther up the Gulf Coast and closer to where the National Hurricane Center predicts a direct hit, Brazoria County ordered a mandatory evacuation to begin at 8 a.m. Thursday.
ET Thursday, the Category 2 storm -- with top sustained winds near 100 mph -- was about  620 miles east of Brownsville, Texas, and about 285 miles southeast of the Mississippi River, the hurricane center said.
About 15,000 residents were leaving Galveston's Brazoria County Wednesday after a mandatory evacuation order was issued at 10 a.m. CT (11 a.m.
The West End is the area of Galveston most susceptible to flooding, LeBlanc said.
"One of the things that the public has to understand if they decide to stay, there will be a period of time during this storm when they will absolutely be on their own," Brazoria County Sheriff Charles Wagner said.
The center issued a tropical storm warning from the Mississippi River's mouth to Cameron, Louisiana, and a hurricane watch from Cameron to Port Mansfield, Texas, about 60 miles south of Brownsville.
The vehicles were positioned near Houston, Matagorda County, Nueces County and Victoria County, the governor's office said.
Voluntary evacuations were issued in San Patricio and Victoria counties and parts of Jackson County, according to the governor's office.
Naval Air Station Corpus Christi will also move about 75 aircraft to other Texas locations, its public affairs office said.
Four deaths were reported from the storm, according to the Cuban government.
Watch as winds and waves pound Cuba »
Also, the United States said it will lift restrictions on cash and humanitarian assistance sent to Cuba for the next 90 days.
CNN's Mike Mount contributed to this report.
Associated Press contributed to this report.