(CNN) -- The surviving suspect in the Boston Marathon bombings has cited the U.S. wars in Afghanistan and Iraq as motivating factors behind last week's attack, a U.S. government official said Tuesday.
Authorities slowly began allowing residents and business owners back into the area Tuesday.
"I've had a tough time," he said.
"For us and our business, it's really about how do we get back to Boston, how do we band together, how do we help those that were seriously injured that are going to have lifelong struggles," she said.
Family members of 8-year-old Martin Richard held a private funeral Mass Tuesday, his parents said in a statement.
A memorial service open to law enforcement officers and the MIT community is scheduled for Wednesday on MIT's campus, the university said.
It's not clear why the brothers allegedly ambushed the officer, the source said.
Investigators believe Tamerlan Tsarnaev carried out the car jacking while his younger brother was nearby at the time, a U.S. official told CNN Tuesday.
They said they won't hurt me.
"
As the younger brother fled in the vehicle, he apparently ran over Tamerlan, authorities said.
"My assumption is they bought this, experimented with it and decided against it and moved on and found another source," Weimer said.
Boat owner David Henneberry told CNN affiliate WCVB Tuesday that his obsession with how his boat was stored just right led him to discover the suspect as he stood on a ladder replacing two pads that had fallen out of the shrink wrap protecting his boat for the winter.
Henneberry said Tuesday that he doesn't even remember climbing down the ladder and running to the phone to dial 911, delivering the tip that would lead to Tsarnaev's capture.
Multiple shots rang out from behind the house, Boston Police Superintendent William Evans said Tuesday.
It wasn't clear at the time, he said, whether the suspect had a handgun or was trying to poke a hole in the boat's cover.
Although Tamerlan Tsarnaev had become increasingly radical in the past three or four years, there was no evidence Tuesday of any accomplices or connections to extremists, a U.S. official said.
Communicating with investigators by writing and nodding, Dzhokhar Tsarnaev has indicated that his older brother masterminded the bombings, the source said.
And Tamerlan Tsarnaev's wife, Katherine Russell, issued a statement through her attorney's office saying she is "doing everything she can to assist with the investigation" and said she and her family are shocked and distraught.
She said family members have arranged for Tamerlan Tsarnaev to be buried at a mosque in Cambridge, Massachusetts, Tuesday or Wednesday.
A spokesman for the chief medical examiner's office also said officials there have heard nothing about plans by the slain suspect's family to claim his body.