Bamako, Mali (CNN) -- Mali's historic cultural center, Timbuktu, lacks electricity, water and phone service, because "terrorists" sabotaged the utilities there, a Paris-based spokesman for the ethnic Toureg separatist party MNLA said Thursday.
But after MNLA ousted the Malian army from Timbuktu last year, Ansar Dine and al Qaeda drove MNLA away.
But, it also appears that Mali has asked for, and will need, some help to establish government control in the north," Ham said.
Malian soldiers have carried out a number of summary executions as they seek to drive back Islamist militants who have been advancing from the north, a human rights group claimed Thursday.
But the French-based International Federation for Human Rights said it was "very alarmed" by reports that Malian soldiers are themselves carrying out extrajudicial killings and abuses as they counterstrike.
The group says it has also been told of other summary executions in central Mali, and documents the pillaging of Tuareg homes by government soldiers.
MNLA rebels who returned to Mali well-armed from fighting for the late Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi staged a military coup last year against the Malian government.
Fellow rights group Amnesty International also has voiced concern over the actions of Mali's army.
"[It] should be a wake-up call not only to the Malian army to nip this problem in the bud and investigate and hold those responsible, but also to Mali's international partners -- the French, the European Union, the African forces who are coming in -- to acknowledge the weaknesses and problems within the Malian security forces, and then, to properly accompany them, to urgently train them in international humanitarian law and to mentor them so there are no further abuses in the future," Dufka said.
Tuareg in refugee camps have repeatedly said they had to flee Mali because of violence against them.
France's involvement in Mali began the day after militants said January 10 that they had seized the city of Konna, east of Diabaly in central Mali, and were poised to advance south toward Bamako.
Mark Morgenstein updated in Atlanta.