In defiance of the country's moderate climate, the architects say they have devised a system to control the park's outdoor environment, using old and new farming technologies to simulate Mediterranean and tropical climates in an ecologically sustainable way.
"The cities surrounding the proposed site are home to 170 different eating cultures -- from Moroccan to Indonesian, from Turkish to Chinese -- and we're aiming to grow food to satisfy all their tastes," said Jago van Bergen, an award-winning architect and one of the brains behind the "Park Supermarket" -- which has been shortlisted for the upcoming World Architecture Awards in November.
According to van Bergen, it's not as far-fetched or futuristic as it sounds.
However, for tropical foods like mangoes and basmati rice, van Bergen says the park will need another layer of warmth.
If successful, the firm believes this type of system could form part of a new approach to sustainable farming, making use of urban greenbelts while helping to reduce the carbon footprint associated with food production -- which accounts for up to 30% of total emissions worldwide, according to a 2008 Greenpeace report.
Van Bergen says the park will reduce carbon emissions by cutting down on food processing and transport costs, while stimulating local industry and social bonds.
"Anything that reduces food miles and other carbon emissions linked to food production is normally a positive thing," said Dr Nicola Canon, lecturer in crop sciences at the UK's Royal Agricultural College.
I think creating tropical climates next to moderate ones could introduce a host of new diseases and pests to the region in quite an unpredictable way," she warned.
For van Bergen, this type of criticism misses the point, because he sees the Park Supermarket as just one of many possible alternatives to the existing system of food production.
"Just like our energy, I think our future food supplies will have to come from a variety of sources, using a variety of methods -- of which we are sure this will be one.