(CNN) -- For 70 years, survivors of the December 7, 1941, attack on Pearl Harbor have captivated listeners with their firsthand accounts, recalling buddies who died in their arms or the glasses worn by a low-flying Japanese pilot.
"We don't like to see it happen," said George Bennett, 87, the organization's national secretary and a Pearl Harbor survivor.
The Sons and Daughters of Pearl Harbor Survivors, with about 20 chapters, is helping to "carry on the legacy left to us," said national president Louella Large, whose father served at the U.S. Army's Schofield Barracks during the attack.
Large, like others, is concerned that most U.S. schoolchildren today know almost nothing about the surprise attack that pulverized battleships and aircraft stationed at Hawaii.
No Japanese military veterans of the attack are able to be on hand for ceremonies honoring U.S. dead at the World War II Valor in the Pacific National Monument.
Remains of Vernon Olsen, 91, of Port Charlotte, Florida, will be interred Wednesday in the battleship USS Arizona, on which he served and where 1,117 sailors and Marines died in the attack.
Those of Lee Soucy, 90, of Plainview, Texas, will be carried Tuesday by a diver to the USS Utah, which also is entombed off Ford Island.
Veterans and others will converge on current and former military installations, including Hickam Field, Pearl Harbor, Wheeler Army Airfield and the Marine Corps base at Kaneohe Bay.
Tora!"
Soucy, a pharmacist's mate on the USS Utah, would vividly recall a peaceful Sunday morning that quickly turned to terror, she said.
He saw these planes coming in.
The family will take part in the sunset ceremony, accompanied by full military honors, Tuesday at the USS Utah memorial.
McCormick said her father spoke at previous symposiums and met Japanese pilots.
On the day of the attack, Bennett heard explosions, but thought it might be part of a U.S. military exercise or an accident.
"We were trained to fight the Japanese, and the Japanese were trained to fight us," Bennett said.
I harbor no ill will toward the Japanese today."
"We're all moving into our 90s and late 80s," Hedley said of the disbanding of the national organization.
Hedley said he believes members of the U.S. government "sold us out" in 1941 and made the attack possible.
President Franklin D. Roosevelt wanted a "war economy ... and his idea was to let them fire the first shot," said the Navy veteran.
"The other admonition is learn to live with one another," he said.
"I've had college students who have asked me what Pearl Harbor was," he said.
"One of his buddies died in his arms," said Large, 63, of East Canton, Ohio.
Large said the Sons and Daughters will take over a national scholarship the Pearl Harbor Survivors Association once managed and invite veterans to its 2012 convention.
Though Large is concerned about what young people know about Pearl Harbor and its role in bringing the United States into World War II, she has experienced good moments during her efforts to spread the word.
He did so," Large said.