During a televised address earlier Wednesday Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki declared an amnesty for all Sunni tribesmen who fought against the government, with the exception of those involved in the killing of Iraqi forces.
Al-Maliki also said he hoped that members of Iraq's parliament would be able to choose a president and prime minister in their next session.
Al-Maliki and his Shiite-dominated government have been under pressure from Western and Arab diplomats to be more inclusive of members of Iraq's Sunni minority, who say they have been marginalized and cut out of the political process by the government.
When ISIS fighters swept into northern Iraq, seizing the city of Mosul, reports emerged of some Sunnis either joining the militants or doing nothing to fight them.
Five more Russian-made Sukhoi Su-25 fighter jets have been delivered to Iraq, the Ministry of Defense said in a statement on Tuesday.
Iraq has now turned to Russia and Belarus to buy fighter jets, he said.
He thanked Iraq's top Shiite cleric, Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani, for his call for volunteers to pick up arms to defend the country against ISIS and said a new government department would handle their mobilization.
Last month, the Iraqi army withdrew from Kirkuk and Kurdish Peshmerga forces took control of the city and small villages in the areas as ISIS carried out its lightning offensive.
Iraqi military units around Baghdad are likely to stand and fight if ISIS militants attack the city, preliminary reports from U.S. military advisers in Iraq and U.S. intelligence personnel concluded, according to a senior U.S. official.
Atta said Iraqi forces have gained more ground from ISIS militants, many of whom have been killed or arrested.
Police officials in Samarra, in Salaheddin province, told CNN that the Iraqi air force struck several areas in the town of al-Shirqat, about 280 kilometers (170 miles) north of Baghdad on Wednesday.
In unrelated violence, at least three people were killed Tuesday night when Iraqi security forces clashed with supporters of a radical Shiite cleric, police and health officials said.
Nine people were wounded, and one military Humvee was set on fire, police said.
Iraqi security forces have boosted security around the shrines and at the main entrances to Karbala.
Russia sends 5 fighter jets to Iraq, al-Maliki criticizes U.S.
CNN's Hamdi Alkhshali, Diane Ruggiero and Holly Yan contributed to this report.