(CNN) -- For better or worse, Iraq and the United States have been attached at the hip for decades.
1: Send in American troops
U.S. troops didn't stay in Iraq for long after driving Hussein's military out of Kuwait in 1991, but they did hunker down 12 years later after toppling the Baathist regime.
American troop levels in Iraq peaked at 166,300 in October 2007, according to the U.S. Defense Department.
The biggest, simplest way to make an impact in Iraq: Send American troops back into the country.
Iraqi Foreign Minister Hoshyar Zebari told CNN on Thursday that no one is calling for "American troops into Iraq."
Still, while the U.S. military might not have a role fighting on the ground in Iraq, it could have a role over it.
The aircraft carrier USS George H.W.
Yet, a U.S. official said the Iraqi government had indicated a willingness for the U.S. military to conduct airstrikes targeting members of the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria (ISIS) and other militants.
Last week, Carney deflected a question about whether Obama might consult Congress before sending warplanes into Iraq -- saying it's too early to give an answer because the President hasn't decided the best course of action yet.
A Defense Department official says that about $15 billion in equipment, training and other services already have gone to Iraq.
But U.S. officials -- calling the current situation "extremely urgent" -- acknowledge that what's already in Iraq and what's coming may not be enough.
Already, militants have been able to pick up weaponry, vehicles and other goods on its swift, vast sweep of Iraq -- some of it supplied by the United States.
"It was a question of when, not if, something like this would happen."
It appears Iraqi forces will team up with Kurdish fighters, known as the Peshmerga, to combat ISIS.
Al-Maliki's government, as well as the military, is dominated by Shiites -- leaving Sunnis not only left out but also bitter, so much so that some of them may not see ISIS as a worse option.
And it's not like al-Maliki has heeded U.S. officials' call for sectarian reconciliation and unity in the past.
The question is still how, exactly, they will support him.
CNN's Barbara Starr contributed to this report.