"The international community has a responsibility to ensure that chemical weapons never re-emerge as an instrument of warfare," he said.
The team did identify two types or rockets it said were used to deliver the gas and their trajectories, and international observers have said those weapons are not known to be in the hands of rebels battling the government of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad.
Ambassador Gary Quinlan, who is currently serving as president of the Security Council, said the report bolsters his country's stance.
Britain, France, and NATO have also said al-Assad's regime was behind the attack.
Syria has since agreed to join the 1993 Chemical Weapons Convention and hand over its chemical arsenal to international inspectors, with the United States and Russia laying out a fast-paced framework for Damascus to follow.
First responders described seeing a large number of individuals lying on the ground, many of them dead or unconscious."
Falling temperatures at the time of the attack meant the downward movement of air, allowing the gas "to easily penetrate the basements and lower levels of buildings and other structures where many people were seeking shelter," Ban said.
The opposition Syrian National Coalition said the findings "demand a unified and decisive response by the international community."
American equipment will also be provided to the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, the international body that monitors compliance with the Chemical Weapons Convention.
Syria: There's a chemical weapons agreement.
The framework they laid out calls for a U.N. resolution demanding that Syria's chemical weapons be placed under international control.
The agreement states that if there is noncompliance "or any use of chemical weapons by anyone in Syria, the U.N. Security Council should impose measures under Chapter VII of the U.N.
"If the Assad regime believes that this is not enforceable, then they will play games," he said.
By the middle of next year, all chemical weapons material must be destroyed, according to the agreement.