So in celebration of the "dark side" CNN has compiled its First XI of soccer villains of the last decade.
See our First XI of soccer heroes.
Zinedine Zidane: Midfield supremo Zidane features at the very top of our football heroes of the decade but he also heads the list of villains for his infamous headbutt on Italy's Marco Materazzi in extra time of the 2006 World Cup final.
Thierry Henry:  Henry went into France's World Cup qualifying playoff against Ireland as one of the most respected footballers on the planet but by the end of the tie his reputation was in tatters.
Rivaldo: Brazil midfielder Rivaldo was the driving force of their 2002 World Cup team with his much-admired cultured midfield play.
In a derby match two years later the severed head of a pig was even thrown onto the pitch in his direction.
The outspoken Irishman, who even walked out on his country's 2002 World Cup bid, later admitted he had deliberately "hurt" Haaland in revenge for an earlier incident.
Not so.
Robert Hoyzer: German referee Hoyzer is another unworthy member of our hall of shame and rightly so after the former amateur player with Hertha Berlin admitted to working in tandem with an international betting ring to fix games, including a German Cup match involving SV Hamburg.
Hoyzer was jailed for over two years and his revelations left a stain on Bundesliga football.
He received a six-month ban from the AFC Champions League for spitting at a match official and during the 2006 World Cup his tackle left France's Djibril Cisse with a broken leg.
Rene Higuita: The former Colombian international goalkeeper became famous for his "Scorpion Kick" clearance against England but in recent years he has cut a more controversial figure and was banned from Ecuadorean club football after testing positive for cocaine.
Now the Argentina national coach, he took them to the World Cup finals with a last-gasp qualification and then promptly spoilt it all by earning a temporary worldwide ban from FIFA for abusing reporters after the crucial game.