(CNN) -- The media circus that is Jodi Arias' murder trial is in its final stretch, as the jury began deliberations Friday following closing arguments.
Lost in the salacious details of the "Jodi Arias trial" is the victim, Travis Alexander, 30, who was brutally killed in his Mesa, Arizona, home in June 2008.
His grandmother introduced him to Mormonism as a child.
That November, he baptized Arias into the Mormon faith, a ceremony Arias said was followed by anal sex.
Still, he and Arias continued to hang out on several occasions until -- disenchanted Arias says -- she moved back to Northern California.
His throat was slit from ear to ear.
Prior to Alexander's killing, Martinez said, Arias stole her grandparents' .25-caliber pistol, rented a car in Redding, California, turned off her cell phone and brought along cans of gas so there would be no record that she was in Arizona.
Martinez said.
After she dropped Alexander's new camera, he became violent, the defense said, and had Arias not defended herself, investigators would've found Arias, not Alexander, dead in the bathroom.
As for the allegation that Arias attempted to surreptitiously slip in and out of Arizona without a trace, Nurmi pointed out that Arias went to the Redding, California, airport to rent her car for the trip.
"If Jodi Arias were accused of the crime of lying, I could not stand before you and say she's not guilty of that crime, but nowhere in your jury instructions are you asked to convict Jodi Arias of lying," Nurmi said.
For some media outlets, the case is gold.
HLN has created a show, "After Dark: The Jodi Arias Trial," which invites an in-studio and at-home audience to grade the day's arguments.
HLN has enjoyed a ratings boost since the trial began, and people drive hours to see the trial for themselves.
R.D.
The prosecution, naturally, would like to see a first-degree murder conviction, as its case has revolved around Arias premeditating the killing.
The jury can also decide that Arias killed Alexander recklessly or that he attacked her.
Either way, she'd then be free to pursue her dream of becoming a professional photographer, and the media circus could move to another town.