St. Louis County Prosecuting Attorney Robert McCulloch told CNN affiliate KMOV that his office planned to begin presenting the case to a grand jury Wednesday.
The grand jury could levy significant charges against Darren Wilson, the police officer who shot and killed the 18-year-old Brown.
The most high-profile figure in President Barack Obama's administration to visit Ferguson, Holder has stressed that the federal government is on the case and listening -- both to protesters calling for Wilson's arrest and for an end to what they describe as a heavy-handed police response, and to residents and law enforcement officers challenged with looting and violence from some in the crowd.
That said -- for all the symbolic significance of a sitting attorney general visiting the site of an active investigation -- what happens in the St. Louis County courts may more likely impact activists' bottom line: justice for Brown's family in the form of Wilson's arrest.
Assuming McCulloch stays in charge and his grand jury timeline holds, French said that having weeks and weeks go by will only aggravate the situation.
While not as large in number as previous days, protesters were out again Wednesday night.
If they're calling for justice, we need justice for everyone."
Ron Johnson, who is in charge of security, later told reporters someone threw urine on police.
Protesters locked hands in front of a police line, and some urged the crowd to remain peaceful.
Police arrested 47 people, Johnson said, including a car full of people who he said were armed and threatened to shoot an officer.
Looking at crowd members through the scope of a gun sends the wrong message, he said.
In his public comments, Holder has urged law enforcement to show restraint and respect people's right to protest, while he has condemned looting and violence by protesters.
"We need concrete action to changes things in this country."
CNN's Ben Brumfield, Dana Ford, Jim Acosta and Mayra Cuevas also contributed to this report.