(CNN)  -- A controversial Colombian senator who has obtained the release of 16 hostages held by Marxist guerrillas is the leading candidate to receive this year's Nobel Peace Prize, which will be announced Friday, said an independent research institute in Norway.
"It really is quite open this year," Harpviken said.
The 50-year-old peace institute, which is often called PRIO, has no connection with the Nobel committee that awards the peace prize.
Since 2007, she has obtained the release of 16 hostages held by the FARC and has gotten commitments from the rebels for the release of several more.
"While it is the hostage releases that have brought Cordoba and her organization the most attention, her role as a principal proponent of peace negotiations and of long-term reconciliation is probably more important to her candidacy for the Nobel Peace Prize," PRIO said in a release.
Cordoba was nominated by Argentinean human rights activist Adolfo Perez Esquivel, winner of the 1980 Nobel Peace Prize.
Two years later, Muhammad and other prominent Islamic scholars wrote a letter called "A Common Word Between Us and You" that urged mutual understanding and peace with Christians.
If Muhammad does not win, Harpviken said, it could be because his work is not done.
The third PRIO front-runner is Samar, head of the Afghanistan Independent Human Rights Commission and the U.N. special envoy to Darfur in Africa.
Quang Do, 80, was awarded the annual human rights prize by the Rafto Foundation of Norway in 2006.
Azerbaijani journalist and human rights activist Malahat Nasibova was awarded the Rafto this year and also is considered a possible Nobel prize winner.
Gao, who was born in 1966, is a self-taught lawyer and People's Liberation Army veteran who was a Nobel Peace Prize candidate last year.
In it, he described a wide array of human rights violations by the Chinese government -- from lack of property and religious rights to environmental disasters to Tibet.
Perhaps the best known of the Chinese dissidents, Wei has been awarded the Robert F. Kennedy Memorial Human Rights Award, the European Parliament's Sakharov Prize for Freedom of Thought, the National Endowment for Democracy Award and the Olof Palme Memorial Prize.
The peace prize is one of five awarded annually since 1901 by the Nobel Foundation in Stockholm, Sweden.
While the other prizes are awarded by committees based in Sweden, the peace prize is determined by a five-member panel appointed by the Norwegian parliament.