(CNN) -- Even though he sailed to the White House on the wings of his soaring rhetoric, President Barack Obama could find that he is on mission impossible as he launches his media blitz on Syria this week -- six television interviews on Monday and a dramatic prime time address on Tuesday.
If he wins over the public, he will likely win Congress, too, but if he fails, he will have turned a problem in Syria into a crisis in his presidency.
It's hard to remember a public terrain as rough as this one for a president in the past few decades.
Weary of war and wary of another, Americans are in no mood to rally behind this call to arms -- many don't see it as our fight, they worry that it will drag us in deeper and even some of his most ardent supporters think the president and his team don't have a firm grip on the wheel.
The Washington Post count shows that as many as a third of House Democrats may vote no.
Even overseas, among nations much closer to Syria, the president's rhetorical offensive has fallen short.
This time around, Obama will have only a handful supporting his intervention and most will be cheering from the sidelines.
It has been little noticed but is important now that Obama has also had more success selling himself than his policies.
Professor George Edwards of Texas A&M University and a dean among political scientists concluded in his 2006 book, "On Deaf Ears: The Limits of the Bully Pulpit," that we have a highly inflated view of how much presidents have been able to change public minds through their speeches.
To our memory, the last Oval Office address that dramatically moved the public opinion needle over military conflict came in late 1983 when President Ronald Reagan spoke to the country about a bloody attack on marine barracks in Lebanon and U.S. intervention in the tiny island of Grenada.
But in that case, Reagan was telling a story about what had already happened to a public whose majority already favored intervention.
They can unite us behind a higher purpose.
Perhaps he can come up with fresh arguments that will bring undecideds in his direction.