It's what he does.
Below, Clancy reflects on the story and what makes it so unique and baffling -- one that might take years to unravel.
As I landed that Saturday in Kuala Lumpur, I thought -- as did most journalists -- that the biggest challenge to the story would be facing grieving families, having to interview and interact with them at what was almost certainly one of the worst times of their lives.
CLANCY: Very early on, at the very first news conference they hinted that the plane may have tried to reverse course, make a "turn back" as they called it.
CLANCY: While this was not Malaysia's first air tragedy, it was an unprecedented situation where a plane had gone missing -- not because something happened that forced it down, but because it abandoned its flight course and we don't know why.
From the very beginning, everybody wanted to know the answer to one question: Where is the plane?
How could they?
And it appeared at the time that their civil aviation and that their military aviation weren't talking to one another or hadn't communicated with one another.
They included accusations that the Malaysians may have shot down the plane and they are covering it all up, that there was a hijacking and the Malaysian government was negotiating with them and they weren't telling the families.
CLANCY: They knew they were overwhelmed, confused and sending mixed signals in the first week.
So here's tiny Malaysia -- with no experience in any of this -- and they know that they screwed up, but they desperately wanted to show they could get it right.
Their logic has been: If we find the plane and unravel what happened here, people will overlook the first few days of confusion and know we were never hiding something.
But again, they knew that they had to find the plane to make the whole thing work.
CLANCY: This story has captured the world's attention because no one can believe that a sophisticated airliner like the Boeing 777 with 239 people on board can simply vanish into thin air.
CLANCY: I've never covered a story like this one that had so few facts and so much speculation in so many different directions.
Yes, the government was responsible for some of it.
Once CNN broke the story this plane had flown out of the South China Sea, back across the Malay Peninsula, I understood this was a bizarre, unprecedented event.
It has to be seen on a satellite, it has to be seen on a radar.
They couldn't do that.
I can't.
It was a mystery at first because they didn't know why it came down.
How does a plane with a catastrophic mechanical malfunction go on to fly another seven hours?
And as we try to imagine what was going on aboard the aircraft this entire time, would the other crew members have just stood by and let the plane go off in the opposite direction?