For the past several years, Palestinian protesters have often clashed with Israeli security forces in front of his house.
"(The Palestinians) were throwing stones, and the (Israeli) soldiers throw the tear gas.
The families of the boys, as well as Zayed, blame the Israeli military for the killings.
"This is the first time they're shooting to kill here," Zayed said, speaking to CNN while standing on the exact spot outside his home where the two boys were filmed being shot.
CNN producer Kareem Khadder was filming the clashes in Beitunya on May 15.
Seventeen-year-old Nadeem Nouwarah was dressed in a sleeveless black t-shirt, wearing a black and white kefiyeh scarf to cover his face and carrying a backpack over both shoulders.
Though Khadder didn't know it at the time, he was filming two Israeli security troops firing their rifles at the Palestinian protesters at the same exact moment when Nouwarah was shot.
However, Khadder's camera shows that less than 15 seconds after one of these gunshots, Palestinians were already racing to put the fatally wounded Nouwarah in the ambulance.
The boy was shot just a few steps from where Nouwarah had been wounded.
At St. George's school in Ramallah, relatives and classmates of the first victim, Nouwarah, were in mourning this week.
Nouwarah's father, Siam, told CNN he had expressly instructed his eldest son not to attend the Nakba protests.
His father showed CNN the bloody backpack his son was wearing when he was shot.
"We were surprised when we took the school backpack back from the hospital to find this bullet inside," said the elder Nouwarah.
Siam Nouwarah said he was saving it for a forensic examination.
Regarding the CNN video of the Israeli security forces firing rifles at the Palestinian demonstrators at the moment when Nouwarah was shot, Lerner said the weapons being used had an attachment at the end of the barrel for firing rubber-coated projectiles.
Meanwhile, the U.S. State Department has joined several human rights groups calling for an investigation into the deadly incident.