Here are 10 things about sound and health that you may not know:
Eagle.
One definition of health may be that that chord is in complete harmony.
On a philosophical level, Plato, Socrates, Pythagoras and Confucius all wrote at length about the relationship between harmony, music and health (both social and physical).
The visual spectrum in frequency terms is 400-790 THz, so it's just under one octave.
Listening positions are a useful set of perspectives that can help people to be more conscious and effective in communication -- because expert listening can be just as powerful as speaking.
When unconscious, this mismatch causes a lot of arguments.
There is now wealth of evidence about the harmful effect of noise, and yet most people still consider noise a local matter, not the major global issue it has become.
The European Union says: "Around 20% of the Union's population or close on 80 million people suffer from noise levels that scientists and health experts consider to be unacceptable, where most people become annoyed, where sleep is disturbed and where adverse health effects are to be feared.
With 7 million deaths a year globally, that means 210,000 people are dying of noise every year.
The cost of noise to society is astronomical.
Then there is the effect of noise on social behavior.
"Schizophonia" describes a state where what you hear and what you see are unrelated.
My assertion that continual schizophonia is unhealthy is a hypothesis that science could and should test, both at personal and also a social level.
Now we ignore our neighbors, merrily discussing intimate details of our lives as if the people around us simply don't exist.
My assertion that listening to highly compressed music makes people tired and irritable is based on personal and anecdotal experience - again it's one that I hope will be tested by researchers.
Over 19 percent of American 12 to 19 years old exhibited some hearing loss in 2005-2006, an increase of almost 5 percent since 1988-94 (according to a study in the Journal of the American Medical Association by Josef Shargorodsky et al, reported with comments from the researchers here).
If the volume is turned so loudly that you can no longer hear conversation around you, or if someone has to shout at you at a distance of about 2 or 3 feet to get your attention, then you are up in the hazardous noise range."
Sound can heal.
Both music therapy and sound therapy can be categorized as "sound healing."
Doubtless there are charlatans offering snake oil (as in many fields), but I suspect there is also much to learn, and just as herbal medicine gave rise to many of the drugs we use today, I suspect there are rich resources and fascinating insights to be gleaned when science starts to unpack the traditions of sound healing.
The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Julian Treasure.