(Budget Travel) -- Looking for cheap airfares for your big trip abroad but suffering from search fatigue?
Or worse, you're forced to plug in your dates and departure cities all over again, only to discover more-expensive fares.
Once you've found a good flight, click on the price and you'll be sent directly to the airline's Web site, where the exact price for the exact flight you selected unfailingly appears.
Use Kayak to fetch fares for your itinerary and then click on "Show chart of fare history," which is a link near the top left-hand corner of the search results.
Plug in your dates and routes, as well as a price threshold, at a fare-tracking service, such as Yapta or Hotwire's TripWatcher.
To name your "trigger" price, look at Kayak's fare-history chart to see the lowest fare recorded for this route, and use an amount close to that as your baseline.
To see how much you might save, we recommend you take Kayak's flexible-date search tool for a spin -- it covers the broadest range of routes and airports of the competing tools we tested.
Finally, relative newcomer Trax.com's flexible search tool lacked a "search nearby airports" feature, which meant it gave you fares from major airports, but missed cheaper fares departing nearby.
In short, Kayak is your best bet for a flexible-date search.
For example, rather than buy a single ticket for direct flights between Chicago and Barcelona for $1,000, you may be able to buy two tickets -- one for a round-trip ticket between Chicago and New York City for $200 and another for a round-trip ticket between New York City and Barcelona for $600 -- and save about $200.
Our initial searches on a few travel Web sites didn't turn up any nonstop flights between the two cities, but we did find multi-stop tickets.
Delta's best fare between Houston and Sydney in November was $1,012, with a stop in Los Angeles.
Next, we did a quick search for round-trip airfares on flights between Houston and Los Angeles.
When all else fails and you just can't get the fare you want, think about off-season travel.
But don't get rained on: before you opt for a cheaper season, you'll want to know about the average weather, so search your guidebook (or a site like weather.com) for monthly trends.
For instance, we recently discovered that fares from Houston to Australia were as much as $800 lower in November than in January.