Cairo (CNN) -- Egypt's prime minister appealed for calm and asked protesters to return to their homes Tuesday following four days of violence in Cairo and a day after the nation's Cabinet offered to resign.
For several hours, protesters hurled stones at police and chanted, calling for the downfall of the Supreme Council of Armed Forces.
Field Marshal Mohamed Hussein Tantawi, head of Egypt's Supreme Council of the Armed Forces, will address the nation Tuesday, according to Egyptian state broadcaster Al Masriya.
Military leaders still say they will hand over power to a new government when one is elected.
On the streets of Cairo, some protesters have gone further, shouting that they believe Mubarak is running the military council and, in fact, the entire country from prison.
Authorities accuse them of throwing Molotov cocktails, said Adel Saeed, a spokesman for the office of Egypt's general prosecutor.
The university is working with the embassy, Roth said.
Twenty-nine protesters have died in the clashes since Saturday, said Hisham Sheeha, spokesman for Egypt's Health Ministry.
Egypt's Interior Ministry said 102 officers and conscripts have been injured, with wounds ranging from gunshots to burns from Molotov cocktails.
He said authorities started it, when they killed people "and put them in the street."
One person was killed and 60 others injured in that city, said al-Adawi, a Health Ministry spokesman.
Some people were arrested, Al-Sadani said, and clashes continued throughout the night.
The Supreme Council has not said whether the resignations were accepted.
The military council has said on its Facebook page it is "extremely sorry for what the events have led to."
"...
However, it alleged demonstrations have been violently dispersed and protesters have been arrested, detained and tortured "before being tried unfairly before military courts and convicted."
"If the hopes of the uprising are to be realized, urgent action is needed now to ensure that one repressive rule is not simply replaced with another," the report said.