Eric Fehrnstrom, Romney's senior campaign adviser, was asked in a CNN interview Wednesday morning whether the former Massachusetts governor had been forced to adopt conservative positions in the rugged race that could hurt his standing with moderates in November's general election.
Rival candidates Rick Santorum and Newt Gingrich, who are vying for conservative support against the more moderate Romney, seized on the comment as indicative of their longstanding criticism that Romney shifts his positions on issues such as health care reform and abortion to suit his political needs.
"You could not have found a more perfect illustration of why people distrust Romney than to have his (adviser) say that the Etch A Sketch allows you to erase everything in the general election," Gingrich added.
"Organizationally, a general election campaign takes on a different profile," Romney said.
I will be running as a conservative Republican nominee, at that point hopefully, for president.
Romney scored a solid victory in Tuesday's Illinois primary, followed by the endorsement Wednesday from Bush, a respected Republican leader once considered a possible presidential contender this year.
A spokesman for Gingrich said the Bush endorsement merely demonstrated the Republican establishment's push for Romney instead of a less conventional candidate like the former House speaker.
"This comes down to Mitt Romney," Erickson said.
The Illinois result followed established patterns in the Republican race, with Romney doing well in urban and suburban areas while Santorum, the former Pennsylvania senator who is his main conservative rival, ran strong in rural areas.
The results gave Romney at least 41 of the 54 delegates up for grabs in the state, increasing his total to 562, according to CNN's estimate.
"Romney won with tea party voters.
Romney has won their votes."
"This is an election about fundamental and foundational things," Santorum said, attacking Romney's claim of greater business and government management experience.
Another Santorum victory in Louisiana would continue the pattern of the race, while a Romney win would signal growing support from the conservative base that he needs to finish off his rivals.
Saul, the Romney spokeswoman, responded:  "That's like a basketball team complaining they lost to another team because their players were too tall.