(CNET) -- Verizon Wireless smartphone customers use 25 percent more data than AT&T iPhone customers, thanks in large part to new Verizon's new Android smartphones, a recent study indicates.
The comparison between smartphone data usage on Verizon's network and iPhone data usage on AT&T's network is important to note, because iPhone users have typically been viewed as the heaviest data users in the entire mobile market.
"Verizon's network is holding up really well as it adds more data traffic," said Ed Finegold, chief analytics officer for Validas.
That said, the total number of cell phone customers -- including those using feature phones and smartphones -- using Verizon data services is much less than the number of customers using these services on AT&T's network.
For example, 71.2 percent of all AT&T cell phone subscribers, which includes users of smartphones like the iPhone as well as feature phones, use data services, while only 43 percent of all Verizon cell phone users subscribe to data services.
According to data analyzed by Validas, about half of AT&T's iPhone customers use less than 200MB of data per month.
This means that about 2.5 percent of AT&T's users consume more than 2GB of data per month.
He speculates this difference is because Android users tend to be more hard-core data users, whereas the iPhone may be used more by casual users who like the phone because it's cool.
In an effort to keep iPhone data usage in check so it doesn't completely overwhelm its network, AT&T recently eliminated its all you-can-eat data plan.
Verizon still offers its unlimited data plan.
Validas' analysis also clearly shows that heavy data users are primarily using AT&T and Verizon Wireless, while customers who tend to use less data, are subscribing to Sprint Nextel and T-Mobile USA.
T-Mobile only has about 22.3 percent of its cell phone subscriber base subscribing to data, and those consumers are only using about 120MB of data per month.
So it will be interesting to note whether the launch of this device will significantly move the needle on data usage on Sprint's network.
Meanwhile, T-Mobile is also trying to strum up more data usage on its network by upgrading its network to the next generation of 3G technology called HSPA+.
© 2010 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved.