Health Care - Map out the next steps for a health care plan after a Senate committee vote.
CARL AZUZ, CNN STUDENT NEWS ANCHOR: I scream, you scream, we all scream for CNN Student News!
But the committee's top Republican says he's concerned about the direction that the bill might take health care in America.
Now one thing we want to point out, this vote is just part of the process.
YELLIN: But all eyes were on Senator Olympia Snowe, the one Republican who might vote yes.
Would she?
This is just the vote of one Senate committee.
So, you think that's it, one more vote and health care reform is done?
Those two bills have to be merged before the full Congress can make the big vote on health care reform.
YELLIN: At least for now, the White House can claim a smidge of bipartisan support, and health care inches forward to the next step.
Me
I'm an Asian country that's a little smaller than the state of Texas.
AZUZ: There are 68,000 U.S. troops in Afghanistan right now helping to fight the Taliban.
40,000, what's that all about?
CHRIS LAWRENCE, CNN PENTAGON CORRESPONDENT: One hundred thousand American and allied troops are already fighting in Afghanistan.
LAWRENCE: Kimberly Kagan is an adviser to McChrystal.
LAWRENCE: Kagan says McChrystal would use those troops to turn the tide, so the Taliban doesn't control every other town.
KAGAN: It's not as though we can simply plug half as many holes with half as many troops and somehow seize the initiative from the enemy.
Chris Lawrence, CNN, Washington.
AZUZ: Severe weather causing problems even when you think it wouldn't.
Well, there is a storm that forecasters are calling the first major one of the season and it is pounding the state with strong winds and heavy rains.
One resident said the whole face of the mountain just came off.
It's what scientists refer to as a "natural land movement," one that caused an estimated $20 million in damages.
Just some of the work being done by this year's CNN Heroes.
No matter what your ice cream cravings are, chances are that Jaxson's Parlour can meet them, just like it has been for more than half a century.
MONROE UDELL, OWNER, JAXSON'S ICE CREAM PARLOUR: My name is Monroe Udell.
I made the ice cream myself.
We came up with the kitchen sink because people called their ice cream in kitchen sinks, which were actually in a punch bowl.
We're renowned, you know, in the industry as one of the outstanding ice cream parlors and restaurants in the country today.
UDELL: We've had, you know, down time and good times with the economy.
AZUZ: A kitchen sink full of ice cream?
I know, I know, we can hear you groaning from here.
We will look forward to seeing you again tomrrow here at CNN Student News.