Underscoring the cultural differences between France and the United States, many French recoiled from images of Strauss-Kahn, who is charged in the alleged sexual assault of a New York hotel housekeeper, in handcuffs and in court -- photographs that would be prohibited under French law to protect the presumption of innocence.
"For 48 hours now, only the side of the accusation has been heard ... and the versions given by police have been contradictory," he said.
"The forensic evidence, we believe, will not be consistent with a forcible account, and we believe there is a very, very defensible case, and he should be entitled to bail," Brafman said during the hearing Monday.
"That is not the case in France," where cameras are not allowed in courtrooms, the head of the Socialist Party, Martine Aubry, told reporters Tuesday in Paris.
"Since yesterday we've been overwhelmed by the images and also by the charges against Dominique Strauss-Kahn," she said.
"...
"If you are pro-Sarkozy, you are happy," French teacher Paul Verite said Tuesday.
Verite said he believes the timing is suspect.
Many French also said they feel Strauss-Kahn hasn't been given a chance to present his side of the story adequately, King said.
That is the law.
Presidential primaries will be held on schedule, said Hamon, the party spokesman.
When the scandal involving President Bill Clinton and Monica Lewinsky broke during the 1990s, many French said it proved Clinton was strong and could lead the country, King said.
However, criminal charges in the Strauss-Kahn case may decrease the French tolerance, King said.
In addition, sympathy for Strauss-Kahn may be eroded, King said, by allegations from French politician Anne Mansouret, who said following Strauss-Kahn's arrest that he attacked her daughter, French journalist Tristane Banon, in 2002.
In arguing against allowing the IMF chief to go free on bond Monday, prosecutors said during his arraignment they believe Strauss-Kahn has engaged in "similar acts" at least once before.