Supreme champion on the court, battler for equality off it, King took on the male-dominated tennis establishment and won.
The men had formed their own union -- the Association of Tennis Professionals (ATP) in 1972 -- and King was convinced it needed to be replicated for women.
It made such a difference," King told CNN.
"My first year playing -- 1973, my first Wimbledon -- I had no idea what the association was, but being American and being a bit older, Billie Jean again had the foresight to get us organized just in time," the Czechoslovakia-born Navratilova told CNN.
Seeing an opportunity to make more money, Riggs challenged both Court and King, claiming that even in middle age -- he was 55 -- he could beat the top women players.
King ignored him at first, but Court took up the challenge and played him in a match in California on May 13, 1973.
"
"I thought it would set us back 50 years if I didn't win that match," said King.
King and Riggs embraced at the end, and became friends off the court until his death in 1995 of prostate cancer.
"Before that, young women were not getting anything, there was gender quotas -- like 5% in the medical school at Harvard -- there were really terrible gender quotas and also women could not get an athletic scholarship in the States," said King.
King was to play competitive singles for 10 more years after her 1973 heroics on and off the court, but injuries took their toll.
A firm believer in the team ethic, she played for and captained the U.S. in the Wightman and Federation Cup competitions, while King and her husband Larry were founding partners of World Team Tennis in 1974.
"That's the way I want the world to look: men and women working together, championing each other, helping each other, promoting each other -- we're all in this world together," she said.
King shows no sign of slowing up, with her commitments to World Team Tennis and various foundations.
He told me when I met him for the first time," added King, who was honored for her work advocating for the rights of women and the lesbian and gay community.
I really wanted to spend the rest of my life fighting for equal rights and opportunities for boys and girls, men and women," said King.
King has used that platform to great effect and the current No.
But it's been a journey that has taken its toll even on someone as outwardly tough as King.