The number of people arrested in London since the violence began has risen to 334, police said Tuesday.
He escaped without injury.
People already in the city centre should leave the area and go home," Bristol police said in a statement early Tuesday.
In the Hackney area of east London, gangs attacked a police car and shops.
Several hundred people in the center of Peckham in South London threw projectiles -- stones, clay pots and bottles -- with one policeman saying, "they raided the bottle bank," CNN's Dan Rivers reported from the scene.
There was no obvious sign of violence at the station but a policewoman told CNN it was not safe for people to go near the station.
Officers from Operation Trident -- the Metropolitan Police unit that deals with gun crime in London's black communities -- stopped the cab during an attempted arrest and soon afterward shots were fired, the Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC) said.
Some reports suggested that Duggan was held down by police and shot in the head, but the IPCC has denied this.
The man's family and friends, who blamed police for the death, gathered Saturday night outside the Tottenham police station to protest.
In all, 35 police officers have been injured since the violence broke out, Metropolitan Police said.
Looting also occurred in pockets of Enfield, next to Tottenham, in north London.
"This is not about the black community and the police, it's about young people and the police," said Shaun Bailey, a youth worker, in a statement circulated by the mayor's office.
The Labour MP for Tottenham told a reporter in March that Tottenham could become a scene of violence as cuts to social-service programs for youths were implemented.
Police say they have evidence that some of the rioting was coordinated using social media, including Twitter.
In 1985 Floyd Jarrett, who was of Afro-Caribbean origin, was stopped by police near the Broadwater Farm estate in Tottenham on suspicion of driving with a forged tax disc, a document all British vehicles must carry.
Like the current violence, a protest outside Tottenham Police Station sparked the 1985 conflict.