For the Vietnamese-Americans living in the Gulf Coast region, the oil disaster is especially complicated.
About 6,000 live within a two-mile radius in the neighborhood of New Orleans East -- distinguishing it, the area's priest says, as the greatest concentration of Vietnamese people outside of Vietnam.
Vien Nguyen sits in front of an altar to his ancestors and his Catholic faith.
"These are proud, active people who contribute to their own livelihood, and now they have to be in lines," asking for handouts, he says.
About 80 percent of Vietnamese-Americans in the Gulf region are connected to the seafood industry through jobs that include fishing, shucking oysters, packing shrimp, and running stores and restaurants, the priest and others say.
So they came here in the '70s and '80s with the help of Catholic Charities and, over the next 30 years, reinvented their lives once more -- in a climate reminiscent of the country they'd left behind.
They created a self-reliant community where their own local businesses thrived.
It chronicles how the Vietnamese-Americans living in New Orleans East galvanized after Katrina, making theirs among the first neighborhoods to rebuild.
Grass-roots organizers established agencies to fight for assistance and empower people, including one for youth called the Vietnamese American Young Leaders Association of New Orleans (VAYLA-NO).
He's the 30-year-old deputy director of the Mary Queen of Vietnam Community Development Corporation (MQVN CDC), established after Katrina, and serves on the rapid response team created by Cao after the oil disaster.
"We had never been exposed to the Vietnamese community," says Thomas, the BP manager of government and public affairs for the lower 48 states and the Gulf of Mexico.
I told him to come in and talk about services," Nguyen says.
"
The hope, Nguyen and others say, is that grass-roots organizations will sprout up elsewhere to help meet the growing and often different community needs.
She's accompanying people to the BP claims office.
The up to $5,000 a month that BP is paying out to captains and boat owners is of little comfort to them, especially when there are home mortgages, too, college tuition payments and more.
She and her husband own St. Vincent Seafood in Leeville, a small fishing community.
The shrimp being unloaded off their boat amounts to a third of what they usually bring in, says Nguyen, 27.
But Rep. Cao holds out hope that the Vietnamese community in the Gulf will pull through -- because it always has.
We are survivors," he says.