"They have been with us at every moment when we've -- from 9/11 on -- in dealing with the sort of terrorist organizations around the world that threaten us," Obama said.
"The fact that this was an attack on journalists, an attack on our free press also underscores the degree to which these terrorists fear freedom -- of speech and freedom of the press," Obama said.
"We don't know yet exactly what motivated these people, whether they received direct orders from a terrorist org or whether they were inspired by something they saw and read," he said.
France is a member of the U.S.-led coalition that has carried out attacks against ISIS, and Earnest said that the U.S. is "keenly aware" of the "risk associated with that."
Earnest added that top national security officials have been in touch with their counterparts in France and that the U.S. will provide resources to investigate the attack.
"DHS will not hesitate to adjust our security posture, as appropriate, to protect the American people," the official said.
U.S. national security and intelligence agencies are rushing to see if they "missed any signs" or warnings of a terrorist attack against France, a senior U.S. official told CNN.
The official said the U.S. does not believe the attack suggests further attacks against Americans the U.S.
"If they can't find these guys right away, then they will quickly be sharing any profile information or details with us," the official said.
And when the magazine published more satirical cartoons mocking the Prophet in 2012, the White House questioned the magazine's "judgment" in September 2012.
"Now it has to be said, and I'll say it again, that no matter how offensive something like this is, it is not in any way justification for violence," Carney said at the same briefing.
My thoughts are with the families of those killed.
Sen. Joe Manchin (D-West Virginia) called the attack a "horrific situation" and said the U.S. needs to be "very vigilant" on MSNBC.
"Even though it's in France, it's an attack on us," Graham said.
CNN's Barbara Starr and Alexandra Jaffe contributed to this report.