The shipping vessel's crew had expected to give depositions on Friday, according to a crew member who asked to remain anonymous because of security concerns.
The crew member who asked to remain anonymous said there were 14 crew members on board, plus the captain.
The crew member who asked to remain anonymous said via e-mail Saturday night that the captain in fact had been returned to the ship to command it during its move to anchorage in the bay.
"We, of course, know that the high seas and that piracy have been a major topic in recent months and years, and so that's something we've been combating.
There is an active U.S. embassy in the country, however, and U.S. consular officials did visit the ship's crew members on Thursday night, according to the crew member.
The Venezuelan Embassy in Washington said that "this issue is being handled by our officials in Venezuela" and didn't have additional immediate comments Friday, spokeswoman Marielba Alvarez told CNN on Friday.
Soldiers boarded the ship Wednesday, herded the crew into the mess and met with Raider before taking him away, the crew member who asked to remain anonymous said by e-mail Thursday evening.
At all times the guns were pointed at the ground," the crew member said.
Then the Venezuelan authorities had the crew unload all the ship's cargo so they could search it, and again didn't find any contraband, the crew member said.
But the Venezuelan authorities said the ship didn't have permission to have them and confiscated them, he added.
On September 1, the crew was told the ship was under investigation for arms trafficking, and on Wednesday morning, the captain said the ship's crew was officially charged.
The captain hasn't been back to the ship since, the crew member said, but he has talked on the phone to the chief mate.
"We are in contact with the government of Venezuela on the matter, and are working to provide all appropriate consular assistance at the earliest opportunity," said a U.S. State Department official who spoke on condition of anonymity.
The crew member said life aboard the ship is tolerable, within limits.
Maybe we are wearing thin on the edges a little, but nothing bad."