A design student at the University of Edinburgh, he was aiming to produce an artistic exhibition for a module on sustainability, when he stumbled on "Dupe," a living alternative to concrete.
Crucially, Trimble believes his mechanism has the added benefit that it could be employed by anyone, anywhere.
"Once you have the basic framework it should be transferable.
Concrete, bricks and cement have remained the dominant materials since the industrial revolution in the early 19th century, and as pressure mounts on resources and climate, scientists and architects are looking to the natural world for solutions.
The company has won major prizes and funding for the bricks, which will be used in a structure for the first time this year in a pedestrian walkway, ahead of building projects across the world.
New York firm Ecovative are producing materials that combine agricultural waste products such as corn stock with mushroom mycelium -- the roots of the vegetable.
"It has great insulation properties", says Sam Harrington, Ecovative Director of Sustainability.
Ecovative are in dialogue with major construction companies, and the material will soon be tested on a historic scale.
"Hy-Fi" will be the largest ever grown structure, and first large building to claim zero carbon emissions.
Benjamin says the bio-bricks could be made to last as long as traditional materials, but believes architecture must embrace temporary structures.
A lot of the steel in our buildings will last longer than we need.
"I could imagine every structure you would built out of bricks", says Dirk Hebel, Assistant Professor of Architecture and Construction at the Future Cities Laboratory in Singapore.
Another, more radical approach takes the material from nature but also allows it to build the structure.
"In biology, complex structures achieve resource efficiency by putting things in exactly the right place, which is very difficult with made materials", says Pawlyn.
Growth would be focused on specific areas of need using an electrical current.
As with Ecovative, a key challenge ahead is to integrate still-living material to allow intelligent biosensors that respond to the building occupants.
But from rock to fungus, sand to space dust, the use of materials and processes designed by nature herself offer both a solution to the sustainability crisis, and a glimpse of our new built environment: clean, efficient, and alive.