Richard Myers, the former police chief in Colorado Springs, will take office in Sanford at the end of the week, the city government announced Tuesday.
Sanford Police Chief Bill Lee, who attempted to resign last week, will remain on paid administrative leave, according to a statement from city hall.
About $5,000 of that went toward the $15,000 cash Zimmerman put up to post bond, defense lawyer Mark O'Mara said last week.
For the next three to five months, Myers "will be responsible for reviewing Sanford Police Department's performance as it relates to the Trayvon Martin case as well as provide overall leadership," according to Colorado Springs police department spokeswoman Barbara Miller.
It was widely reported that the new mayor forced Myers out, and a press release from Myers upon his retirement in October seemed to bear that out.
"When Mayor Bach was elected, I told him I was here to serve, and would do so loyally and do my best to lead the department in the direction he wanted to take the city, until such time that he felt he needed to bring in his own chief," the release from Myers stated.
"Chief Richard Myers is a highly intelligent leader with a great law enforcement background who is skilled at analyzing problems and articulating sound recommendations for positive change," she said.
Earlier this year, Myers served a three-month term as interim chief of police in Manitou Springs, a small community outside Colorado Springs.
Myers' time in Colorado Springs ended with a controversy surrounding an undercover sting operation at a Hooters restaurant.
The detectives left and the restaurant and the waitress later were cited for serving intoxicated patrons.
Chief Myers and the newly elected mayor, Stephen Bach, asked the Colorado Bureau of Investigation to launch an investigation.
"Day in and day out, the Office of the Chief deals with so many sensitive issues, whether personnel related, crimes, public policy, fiscal ... this one doesn't even register on the Richter scale."