"Those pictures unfortunately became symbolic, emblematic of all the troubles that the U.S. faced in the last four years of the Bush administration, particularly given its war in Iraq," Amanpour said.
Military commanders urged him to fight the release of the photos, fearing it would endanger the lives of U.S. soldiers.
...
A year into the Iraq war, the American public had grown increasingly uneasy about the direction of the war, and the Abu Ghraib photographs gave anti-war protesters the ammunition they needed to rally around their cause and question Bush administration policies.
A CNN/USA Today/Gallup poll immediately after the photos were released showed that nearly three-quarters of Americans said the mistreatment of the detainees was unjustified under any circumstances.
"The American people said that they wanted their good name, the name of their country, the influence and credibility of their country's standing, to be restored in the rest of the world," she said.
They showed front-and-center what human rights groups had been saying for months: that the Bush administration was abusing prisoners within U.S. custody.
...
The prison pictures just really made us speechless."
"The publication of these photos would not add any additional benefit to our understanding of what was carried out in the past by a small number of individuals," Obama said.
The ACLU said the Pentagon had agreed to release a "substantial" number of photographs by May 28.
He has said that the "enhanced interrogations" of detainees worked and has opposed the release of the latest round of prisoner abuse photos.
"They can conduct all the violence they want without the release of these photographs," she said.
He said the liberal left is trying to use the photos "as a vendetta against the Bush administration."
"It's not as big news as it used to be," he said.
CNN senior political analyst David Gergen, a former adviser to several Republican presidents and one Democrat, said Obama made a wise political decision, even if he upset the left.