(CNN) -- There's a standard Atlantic City itinerary: arrive at one of the many casinos along the Boardwalk, head straight for the card tables and slot machines, drink some complimentary cocktails and proceed to empty your wallet.
Atlantic City falls somewhere in between Vegas' glitz and Reno's grime, and you can find a bit of either, depending on your taste.
You might even chat with some regulars at places such as Culmone's (2437 Atlantic Ave.; 609-348-5170), a pleasantly seedy establishment a few blocks off the Boardwalk.
It frequently played host to a gang of colorful characters, including the real-life Nucky Johnson (the inspiration for the HBO show's Nucky Thompson character), before being raided and shut down by the feds.
Today, visitors can take guided tours inside the novelty pachyderm.
Absecon Lighthouse juts up prominently from the north side of Atlantic City.
The Steel Pier doesn't look much like it did in the early 20th century, but it has entertained visitors for over 100 years and is home to an array of modern rides, games and food vendors.
The gently sloping beach along the Atlantic City Boardwalk is surprisingly appealing and clean.
It's located right on the waterfront at historic Gardner's Basin, where you can dine at dockside restaurants and check out the Atlantic City artists' colony.
It turns out Atlantic City is not entirely devoid of high culture.
This year's Atlantic City Food and Wine Festival takes place from July 25 to 27 at Caesars and features copious amounts of food, drink, parties and cocktails as well as talks and demonstrations from celebrity chefs.
There is plenty to do inside Atlantic City's casinos besides gambling.
The Pier Shops at Caesars is another area where you can spend a few hours away from the casino floor eating, shopping or watching The Water Show, a Vegas-style water, light and sound extravaganza that pops off once every hour (check with the hotel first, it is occasionally out of service).
Finally, take a leisurely stroll down the entire length of the Atlantic City Boardwalk, a tourist attraction that dates back to the late 1800s.
A diverse mass of humanity descends every summer, from Indian-American parades to teenage skaters to extended families from Ohio, all enjoying the sea air perfumed by the scent of fried dough and cotton candy.