(CNN) -- As Ashton Kutcher becomes the first to collect 1 million followers on Twitter and Oprah Winfrey sends out her first tweet, tech observers are debating: Does Friday mark a new peak for the microblogging service?
This brings Twitter mainstream," said Andrew Cherwenka, a Huffington Post contributor and Web developer at Trapeze.com, referring to Kutcher and Winfrey's Twitter breakthroughs.
In the much-publicized duel, Kutcher's Twitter account crossed the 1 million mark on Twitter about 2:13 a.m.
ET Friday, narrowly beating CNN's breaking-news feed, which had 998,239 followers at the time.
"We now live in an age in media that a single voice can have as much power and relevance on the Web, that is, as an entire media network," he said.
ET and said, "HI TWITTERS.
"Twitter has experienced watershed events over the last two years since we founded the company, and momentum continues to build," Twitter co-founder Biz Stone said Friday in an e-mail to CNN.
"I think it's really important that Twitter is not about celebrities.
Sean 'Diddy' Combs, who joined Twitter and threw his support behind Kutcher, told Larry King that he views Twitter as an important medium for him to share who he "really" is, and give fans a direct line of communication to him.
Kutcher told Larry King that initially, Twitter was a tool to feed his ego until he realized that he could use the service to make a difference.
Kutcher had challenged CNN to the Twitter race, saying he would donate 10,000 mosquito bed nets to charity for World Malaria Day in late April if he beat CNN, and 1,000 if he lost.
The battle between @aplusk, Kutcher's Twitter handle, and CNN's feed gained much attention on Twitter, with fans pulling for both sides.
See Kutcher celebrate his milestone »
CNN maintains more than 40 official Twitter accounts, with a total of more than 1.5 million followers.
"We'd like to thank every one of our followers for helping CNN reach the 1 million mark, and we are delighted to raise our donation to 10,000 bed nets for World Malaria Day in recognition of them," Martin said.
The online feud between CNN and Kutcher also drew attention to the popularity of Twitter, which has seen breakneck growth over the past year.
Cherwenka, the Huffington Post blogger, believes Kutcher may be one of the first people to leverage the power of online social networking for widespread social good.
And that really hasn't been done before," Cherwenka said.
"I know some Twitter early adopters and loyalists are feeling a bit ambivalent about this influx of mainstream attention, and are likening it to when their favorite indie band gets big overnight," said CNET's McCarthy.
CNN.com's Brandon Griggs and John D. Sutter contributed to this report.