The phones will run a modified version of Google's Android software, which is being developed as part of an initiative that spans multiple federal agencies and government contractors, these people said.
The Army has been testing touchscreen devices at U.S. bases for nearly two years, said Michael McCarthy, a director for the Army's Brigade Modernization Command, in a phone interview.
As many as 5 million Android users may have had their phones compromised by a recent virus outbreak rooted in apps found on Google's market, said security software maker Symantec.
Rather than building special handsets hardwired with secure components, the government plans to install its software on commercially available phones, the people familiar with the project said.
This approach is far less expensive and allows the government to stay up to date with the latest phones on the market, they said.
Still, Apple's iPhone and iPad are also highly desired among U.S. officials, and people involved in the U.S. smartphone program said their goal is to support any type of smartphone.
However, the government chose to work on Android first because Google already allows people to tinker freely with its code, said those working on the project.
When Google releases a new version of Android or when a new version of its phones comes out, a compatible software update to the government's secure Android can be ready within two weeks, Stavrou said.
"When you download an application on your phone, you don't really know what it does," Stavrou said.
On government phones, officials will be prompted with detailed reports about what data may be sent, and they can decline or allow each transmission, the people involved said.
They are also consulting with several federal agencies, many within the Department of Defense, he said.
"The government is actually working pretty hard in getting this technology to most agencies," Stavrou said.
The project is funded by the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, the group responsible for early development of GPS and the Internet, Stavrou said.
The National Security Agency has been designated with evaluating the smartphone software for certification, Stavrou said.
In an unusual move for the federal government, each version of the secure Android operating systems will only need to be certified once before it can be deployed to any U.S. agency, said two people involved in the project.
He concluded by saying, "Enjoy!"
Many companies have expressed interest in the government smartphone project, officials said.
Another obstacle for the government will be to figure out how to secure voice calls, Schromsky said.
After the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency project is certified for classified data, developers plan to work on securing the Android system for voice-over IP communications using apps such as Skype, Stavrou said.