Last month, officers visited Rodger, 22, who they say killed six people and himself Friday night, at his apartment in Isla Vista, California.
"It was apparent he was very mentally disturbed," Santa Barbara County Sheriff Bill Brown said, referring to the contents of the autobiography.
Rodger said he was having troubles with his social life.
There was nothing in his behavior to suggest he was violent, and the deputies "determined he did not meet the criteria for an involuntary hold," Brown said.
After that, Rodger wrote, he kept one of his guns and some loaded magazines near him so if police came back to his apartment, he would try to shoot them and escape.
"Thankfully, all suspicion of me was dropped after I took down the videos from Youtube, and the police never came back."
The plan to kill many people apparently had come together in the past year, Brown said.
Rodger stabbed three men to death at his home.
Hong and Chen were "listed on the lease for the apartment as tenants, along with Rodger," the Sheriff's Office said.
Minutes later, Rodger sprayed bullets at the house from across the street, Brown said.
And she was -- I could tell immediately she was gone," said Sullivan, 19.
You could tell she was barely able to move her eyes and just moving her arms slightly," Sullivan said.
Delta Delta Delta said on its Twitter page Sunday that it mourned the loss of two of its sisters.
Rodger got back in his car, and the killing rampage continued.
He shot at two people on the sidewalk, pulled a handgun on a woman and fired some more, Brown said.
...
The nightmare finally ended after Rodger slammed into a parked vehicle and apparently shot himself in the head, police said.
I don't know why you girls aren't attracted to me, but I will punish you all for it."
Inside the wrecked BMW, Brown said, police found three handguns -- all legally purchased -- and more than 400 rounds of unused ammunition.
Rodger suffered from an undisclosed mental health issue and was under the care of a variety of health care professionals, Brown said.
The official said nothing had been found in the gun trace to indicate Rodger should have been disqualified.
"Being denied entry on a simple amusement park ride due to my height may seem like only a small injustice, but it was big for me at time," Rodger wrote.
"My orchestration of the Day of Retribution is my attempt to do everything, in my power, to destroy everything I cannot have," Rodger wrote.
All of those popular people who live hedonistic lives of pleasure, I will destroy, because they never accepted me as one of them.