Washington (CNN) -- President Barack Obama will deliver his fourth State of the Union address on Tuesday, marking his seventh address to a joint session of Congress.
2011: Obama calls for unity in his first State of the Union after Democrats lost control of the House in the previous year's midterm elections.
2009: Obama says he aims to halve the deficit by the end of his first term.
2008: President George W. Bush uses his final State of the Union address to call for a quick shot in the arm for the economy in "a period of uncertainty" and touts progress in the war in Iraq.
Bush begins his speech by congratulating the first "Madam Speaker" of the House, Nancy Pelosi.
He also appeals for patience with his recently announced plan to increase troop levels in Iraq, despite opposition from many Democrats and some members of his own party.
On the Iraq War, he says that the U.S. is "on the offensive in Iraq, with a clear plan for victory" and rejects calls for withdrawing troops.
The wife of Rep. Bill Young, R-Florida, is ejected for wearing a shirt that reads, "Support the Troops."
Many members of Congress have their fingers dipped in ink in support of Iraqi voters who went to the polls despite the threat of violence.
The president also introduces Safia Taleb al-Suhail, an Iraqi human rights advocate who had voted in the recent Iraqi elections.
2004: Bush makes what many call a veiled reference to the 2004 presidential race the day after Democratic Sen. John Kerry's victory in the Iowa caucuses: "We have faced serious challenges together, and now we face a choice: We can go forward with confidence and resolve, or we can turn back to the dangerous illusion that terrorists are not plotting and outlaw regimes are no threat to us.
1999: President Bill Clinton delivers his penultimate State of the Union shortly after having been impeached by the House of Representatives and while on trial in the Senate over the Monica Lewinsky scandal.
1992: By the time of the January State of the Union, President George H. W. Bush's approval rating has fallen to 46% from its Gulf War high of 89%, the lowest approval rating of his presidency at that point.
1991: Bush delivers his State of the Union just 13 days after attacks on Iraq begin on January 16.
Our cause is just.
1974: President Richard Nixon calls for an end to the Watergate investigation, saying, "One year of Watergate is enough."
He also calls for a Voting Rights Act as well as air and water purification.
This is the first State of the Union address to be broadcast on prime-time TV.
1944: Ill after an overseas trip, President Franklin Roosevelt delivers his State of the Union as a "fireside chat" on the radio instead of before a joint session of Congress.
1862: With the Civil War not yet a year old, President Abraham Lincoln calls for the emancipation of the slaves.