Sandra Giustina is rolled into surgery to correct her atrial fibrillation at Max Hospital in New Dehli, India.
"They [U.S. hospitals] told me it would be about $175,000, and there was just no way could I come up with that," Giustina said.
Giustina is just one of millions around the world journeying outside their native land for medical treatment, a phenomenon known as "medical tourism."
"Medical care in countries such as India, Thailand and Singapore can cost as little as 10 percent of the cost of comparable care in the United States," the report found.
Patients are greeted by a company representative at the airport in the country where they've chosen to be treated; a 24-hour personal "patient concierge" is also provided, a level of service that's standard among many of the top medical travel planning companies.
Walk through a patient wing at Max Hospital in New Delhi on any given day and you're likely to see people from around the world.
Many South Asians and Africans said they travel abroad because they do not have access to care in their homeland.
"If I could have afforded my procedure in the United States, I would have taken it, but that was not my option," Giustina said.
CNN spent time at Max Healthcare in New Delhi and saw operating rooms similar to those in many U.S. hospitals.
The lobby had marble floors, a book café, coffee station and a Subway sandwich shop.
"I've seen hospitals in the U.S. where they open up something costing $10,000 and say, 'Oh it's not working.
We would never do that here.
Hospital officials negotiate hard to keep costs low for high-tech medical machinery and other supplies, Jha said.
Patients don't think about their legal vulnerabilities, Cortez said.
"Some countries limit patient access to medical records so they can't really learn what happened during the surgery.
Experts say that every patient considering traveling abroad for surgery should inquire about postoperative care, legal rights and the safety standards and certifications of the hospital.
"What really helped me feel good about the process was that my doctor in the U.S. spoke to the cardiologist in India prior to my trip," said Giustina.