France, Spain, Portugal and Italy refused to let the president's plane fly through their airspace after rumors surfaced that Snowden might be on board, Bolivian officials said.
"Message to the Americans: The empire and its servants will never be able to intimidate or scare us," Morales told supporters at El Alto International Airport outside La Paz late Wednesday.
In several speeches Thursday, Morales said he had been targeted for his indigenous background.
Despite several attempts by CNN to get a response, Obama administration officials declined to comment on Bolivia's allegations that the United States pressured European countries to deny landing rights to the Bolivian president's plane, referring all questions to the European countries in question.
The situation, they said, was a flagrant violation of international treaties.
The leaders said they supported Morales' complaint to the United Nations High Commissioner of Human Rights over the matter, and they called for their countries' foreign ministers to form a committee to investigate what happened.
Argentine President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner said the countries must apologize.
"What just happened with the South American indigenous leader Evo Morales shows the level of madness and desperation that the (U.S.) empire has reached," he said.
Morales, a left-leaning president who has long criticized the United States, had been attending a conference of gas-exporting countries in Russia, where he told the Russia Today news network that he would be willing to consider asylum for Snowden.
"We cannot lie to the international community by carrying ghost passengers," Bolivian Foreign Minister David Choquehuanca said.
French Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius called his Bolivian counterpart to express regrets about a delay in the confirmation to authorize the plane to fly over its territory, the French Foreign Ministry said.
France said Thursday it had refused the request.
On her website, Jonsdottir published what she said was the text of a letter from Snowden.
Iceland has said it can't consider Snowden's request for asylum there until he's in its territory.