Rick Perry and others are lashing out at President Barack Obama's decision not to tour border facilities overwhelmed by a flood of undocumented children, saying the U.S. leader needs to see with his own eyes what both sides agree is a humanitarian crisis.
Both Republicans and the White House have described the crush of Central American children as a humanitarian crisis, but Obama said Wednesday that visiting facilities where the children are processed and detained would be little more than a photo opportunity.
This is a problem," Obama said Wednesday.
That's what governors do, that's what presidents do," Perry said.
U.S. Rep. Henry Cuellar, D-Texas, said on CNN's "New Day" that it's important for Obama to see what the children are going through.
"I'm interested in him looking at the kids.
Obama has called on Congress to quickly approve his request for $3.7 billion in emergency funding to deal with the crisis, which has seen thousands of undocumented children crossing the border without their parents.
he said.
"The children are a symptom of policies that have enticed them to come," Perry said.
Republicans have called for the repeal of a 2008 law signed by President George W. Bush that requires deportation hearings before sending back children from countries that do not border the United States.
Another Republican, Sen. Ron Johnson of Wisconsin, said the United States should immediately fly the children back to their home countries.
Perry said lawmakers aren't going to back Obama's funding request if the government doesn't act to stop policies they see as encouraging children to show up at the border.
"What I told him was we're happy to consider how we could deploy National Guard down there, but that's a temporary solution," Obama said of his discussion with Perry.
The bill, Cuellar said, will include protections for children who come to the United States because of concerns about drug or sex trafficking.
Democrats want to keep the law intact to ensure that children who deserve asylum receive a full hearing.