(CNN) -- The growth of e-commerce in China has outpaced that of western countries during the past five years.
By 2017, business-to-consumer e-commerce in China is predicted to double its share and reach 46% of the total online sale, according to the China Internet Network Information Center.
China, in its current state, lends itself perfectly to e-commerce.
Characteristics of Chinese e-commerce
Cash on delivery (COD) is still a popular means of payment due to lack of trust in both online payment systems and the e-commerce providers themselves.
Many large e-commerce companies have chosen to build their own last mile delivery capabilities to ensure a better customer experience and to facilitate faster growth.
In 2012, we launched the Service by Yihaodian (SBY) model to provide our merchants with logistics, marketing, platform, and data services.
For example, online shoppers in the U.S. are used to opening one window at a time and flipping back and forth via navigation buttons, but Chinese online shoppers prefer that each click opens a new window allowing them to navigate a site by jumping between several windows.
The user interface of e-commerce websites in the U.S. are usually very simple and clean with plenty of images, but Chinese shoppers favor crowded websites with information and links all packed into one page providing the impression of a high-energy shopping atmosphere.
Not many successes for multi-national Internet companies (not only e-commerce companies) can be found in China.
Reasons include: a) Insufficient understanding of Chinese consumers' shopping behavior, simply copying global business models to fit China's market; b) Management is not localized, not adapting for local competition; c) Higher operational cost than local companies due to compliance and operational overhead; d) Improper organizational structure, resulting in low decision efficiency.
It is more beneficial for multi-national companies and brands to conduct e-commerce in China through strategic partnerships or through an e-commerce solution provider to ensure a higher success rate.
Trends in e-commerce in China
Consumers using mobile apps exhibit different buying behavior from those using personal computers.
E-commerce in China is also rapidly penetrating third and fourth tier cities, predominantly due to growing Internet penetration, a local shortage of shopping malls and supermarkets, and an overall lack of available products.
Yihaodian started social commerce five years ago by embedding our website into a well-know social networking site Tianya.
We are fortunate to witness this change and proud to be a part of making this happen.