In the mid-March chill Thursday, the victims and their stories continued to emerge as firefighters ferreted through the piles of bricks and wreckage on the East Harlem block where a powerful explosion and fire leveled two buildings.
"We have the same temperament, character.
Another victim, Griselde Camacho, 44, was a public safety officer at the Hunter College Silberman School of Social Work in East Harlem, the school's website said.
All of you will be in our thoughts in the days ahead."
Rosaura Hernandez, 21, who also perished in the explosion, was a line cook at Triomphe Restaurant, general manager Robert Holmes said.
My staff has taken it hard... She was solid as a rock, never got flustered.
Though authorities have said a gas leak may have triggered the explosion, Mayor Bill de Blasio told reporters Thursday that the official cause was under investigation.
On Wednesday, one woman tried in vain to find her husband, Jordy Salas, who may have been on the second floor of one of the collapsed buildings.
On Thursday, Con Edison officials said the utility received a call reporting a gas leak around 9:13 a.m. Wednesday from a resident at one of the newer buildings on Park Avenue.
The utility looked back at 10 years of checks and repairs on the gas main on the block and found no "historical condition," he said.
Fire officials said they received no reports of gas leaks in the area in the last month, while police reported receiving no calls since 2010.
Some wreckage was still smoldering Thursday, with the fire whipped by the cold wind, de Blasio said.
"Our biggest concern now is the free-standing wall in the back," Kilduff said.
A building department official said one of the two Park Avenue buildings that collapsed received a city permit last year for the installation of 120 feet of gas piping.
There were a total of 15 units in the two buildings, officials said.
"If we were here five minutes earlier we may have had some fatalities among firefighters," he said.
In the 1990s, many Mexican immigrants began to move into the area, which has been gentrified in recent years, with many mom-and-pop shops replaced by restaurants and bars.