Washington (CNN) -- The Senate will hold its final vote on a sweeping health care bill Thursday morning under an agreement that Majority Leader Harry Reid announced Tuesday.
First, the Senate will hold another procedural vote on the health care bill Wednesday to set up the final vote.
Obama said Tuesday he would delay leaving for his Christmas holiday in Hawaii until the Senate holds its final vote on the bill.
The first procedural vote early Monday virtually ensures the bill's final approval, but any measure the Senate passes still would have to be merged with the $1 trillion House version in what could be tough negotiations.
Republicans have mounted a fierce campaign against the bill, using procedural tricks to slow debate and casting the measure as an unnecessary government intrusion in health care that will raise costs.
To Democrats, Monday's vote signaled eventual victory on the Senate bill.
"The die is cast.
The House and Senate bills agree on a broad range of changes that could affect every American's coverage.
Both the House plan and the Senate bill eventually would limit total out-of-pocket expenses and prevent insurance companies from denying coverage for pre-existing conditions.
The House bill would extend coverage to individuals earning up to 150 percent of the poverty level, or roughly $33,000 for a family of four; the Senate plan ensures coverage to those earning up to 133 percent of the poverty level, or just more than $29,000 for a family of four.
The Senate bill also cuts Medicare by roughly $500 billion.
The Senate bill also would hike Medicare payroll taxes on families making more than $250,000; the House bill does not.
The House plan includes a public option; the Senate plan would instead create new nonprofit private plans overseen by the federal government.
The Senate plan would require individuals to purchase health insurance coverage or face a fine of up to $750 or 2 percent of his or her income -- whichever is greater.
Senate provisions, made more conservative than initially drafted to satisfy Nelson, would allow states to choose whether to ban abortion coverage in plans offered in the exchanges.
Individuals purchasing plans through the exchanges would have to pay for abortion coverage out of their own funds.