Washington (CNN) -- Herman Cain on Tuesday vehemently denied all sexual harassment allegations against him and said he had no memory of the first accuser to publicly describe claimed misconduct by the Republican presidential hopeful.
Cain said it could be the "Democrat machine" behind the allegations but added that he didn't know for sure.
Ain't going to happen," Cain said.
The restaurant association said at the time that it investigated the accusations and Cain denied them, Bennett noted.
He said Kraushaar's complaints had been found to be baseless at the time, and the restaurant association negotiated a severance agreement with her rather than a legal settlement regarding any sexual harassment charges.
"There is safety in numbers," she said.
Meanwhile, a longtime friend of one of Cain's unidentified accusers said Tuesday that Cain mentioned a possible job promotion at the same time he made the accuser uncomfortable with sexual innuendo and overtures.
Bialek said earlier Tuesday that a reason she came forward with her account of Cain's alleged misbehavior 14 years after the fact was encouragement from her 13-year-old son.
"That confirmed it for me.
Bialek said Cain told her, "You want a job, right?"
She didn't file a complaint at the time because she no longer worked for the association, said Bialek, who also denied wanting any money for going public, despite a bankruptcy stemming from costs related to her late mother's medical bills.
Gordon said there was "no record, nor even a complaint filed" to support Bialek's accusation.
Mitt Romney atop the polls, and his campaign said it raised $2 million in the week since the sexual harassment accusations first surfaced in an October 30 report by Politico.
However, Republican Sen. Lisa Murkowski of Alaska said Tuesday that Cain should quit the race if the allegations against him are true.
"This isn't for fun.
In denying all the allegations, Cain said Tuesday that he still has the support of his wife of more than 40 years.
Several unaffiliated Republican operatives said Cain must say more about the allegations, because his current message is not putting the controversy to rest.
He said Cain can "approach this with humility and sincerity" and people will listen.
She told CNN Tuesday that Cain and the women should testify under oath.
ET.