"It was at the funeral that I learned that one of my uncles had the ability to see ghosts," said Chiou, sharing his story at Carapace, a monthly oral storytelling event in Atlanta.
The Atlanta group, which broke away from the Moth and held its first independent event last month, is one of a growing number of oral storytelling groups across the country telling true stories before a live audience.
Atlanta advertising executive Ben Yaun, a first-timer at the event but a teller of stories within his family, held the audience captive with a tale of an enormous, attacking snapping turtle that took over a fishing trip from his childhood.
"There's no other type of performance really where the audience becomes the performer and becomes the audience again," Osborne said.
Carapace rules are simple: Put your name in the hat and you might get picked, tell a personal story, keep it to five minutes, no notes, no political rants, no poetry, no grudges, no propaganda.
Pay your tab.
Green founded the Moth in 1997 in his New York loft, inspired by nights with friends drinking Jack Daniels, playing poker and telling stories at his friend Wanda's home on St. Simons Island in Georgia.
Oral historian Stephen Sloan says oral storytelling speaks to our identity as human beings, and he isn't surprised at the recent popularity of true stories told live.
"Before technology, storytelling was how you knew what was meaningful, how you had any deep understanding of who you were and what your place was in the world," said Sloan, a history professor and director of Baylor University's Institute for Oral History.
The Moth staff chooses a theme and invites five people from all walks of life -- some known and some not known to the audience -- to tell 10-minute first person stories on stage, said Moth artistic director Catherine Burns.
As the Moth has grown and partnered with interested storytellers to launch "MothUP" affiliates in various cities around the country, a few local groups have chafed against rules more recently required by the national organization.
"We open the stage to anyone who wants to tell a story and we try to fit in as many stories as we can," said Stacey Wehe, a founder of the St. Louis group, now named the Saint Louis Ten.
The Atlanta and St. Louis groups "got to a size that wasn't what the program was supposed to be.
Back at Manuel's Tavern in Atlanta, where Carapace holds its free monthly get-togethers, any storyteller who didn't get picked to speak was invited to come up on stage at the end of the evening to share their first, last or best line.