The Syrian government has warned protesters in the city of Homs to stop demonstrations, hand in weapons and surrender defecting military members by Monday night or face bombardment, an opposition leader said.
The Syrian government denied reports of water and electricity being out in the city, according to the state-run Syrian Arab News Agency (SANA).
The London-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, which gets information from people in different parts of the country, said people in Homs and neighboring towns widely joined the strike.
But on SANA, the Syrian government quoted people across the country as saying there was no strike and no sign of a strike.
In the city of Aleppo, security forces burned down a factory in an industrial area that was participating in the strike, the LCC said.
The Syrian government said authorities in Idlib "confronted members of an armed terrorist group" who were blocking a road and "killed and injured a number of its members."
Authorities also chased another "armed gang" and killed two of its members, SANA said.
There were clashes Saturday in Khan Sheikhon, where authorities "arrested a number of the terrorists and killed three of those groups' prominent leaders," SANA said in a report Sunday.
In a statement on Egypt's state-run MENA news agency, an Arab League official said leaders will "discuss the Arab response to a message from Syrian Foreign Minister Walid Moallem to approve the signing of an agreement on an Arab League observing mission to Syria with conditions."
On Saturday, France expressed its concerns about events in Syria, and warned against Syria launching a military operation against the city of Homs and its population, the French Foreign Ministry said in a statement.
They decided to put pressure on an Arab state because the leader is killing his people."
The United Nations said this month that more than 4,000 people have died in Syria since the crackdown began in mid-March.
In its 2010 Human Rights Report about Syria, the U.S. State Department said Syria's elections have not been fair in the past.