The same elite Navy SEAL unit that killed Osama bin Laden took part in a daring nighttime rescue in Somalia of two American and Danish foreign aid workers, a U.S. official said Wednesday.
The SEALs and the freed hostages left the compound on helicopters, said a U.S. official not authorized to speak to the media and who asked not to be named.
The Navy SEALs evolved from several specialized Navy commando teams that came into being during World War II when the United States realized that to invade enemy-held territory in North Africa, Europe and the Pacific, it needed savvy, quick-thinking fighters who could perform reconnaissance at sea.
The SEAL moniker came after President John F. Kennedy spoke about his admiration for special forces troops and his hope that the U.S. military would better enhance its ability to engage in unconventional warfare, countering guerrilla and clandestine operations.
The war against al Qaeda is just as much about obtaining reliable intelligence as it is winning on the battlefield.
SEAL victories have been many.
The site says SEALs commanded Task Force K-BAR, which oversaw the Navy, Air Force and Coalition Special Operations Forces at the beginning of Operation Enduring Freedom.
But not long after that victory, the SEALs suffered the loss of 17 members when their helicopter was shot down in Wardak province in Afghanistan during a mission intended to take out a known Taliban leader directly responsible for attacks against American troops, two U.S. military officials told CNN shortly after the August incident.
SEAL training is "the ultimate test for a guy," said Chris Heben, a former SEAL with 10 years of experience carrying out missions in Africa, the Middle East and Afghanistan.
Instructors deprive the participants of sleep, then let them hit the rack just long enough for REM sleep to begin, said Brandon Tyler Webb, a former SEAL who ran the sniper program at the Navy Special Warfare Command and was part of combat missions in Iraq and Afghanistan.
Most recruits drop out long before Hell Week because they can't take the training, which involves running 15 miles, topped with a 2-mile open water swim and other intense physical conditioning, Webb said.
Training instructors make you feel like "you're part of an Indian tribe," Heben said.
The discipline from SEAL training was intensely satisfying to Heben in his early 20s.
"I enlisted in the Navy immediately," Heben said.
Though he won't discuss specific areas of countries where he's carried out missions, he said that he normally trained for missions on exact mock-ups of a targeted location.