A prosecuting attorney greeted the jury in the George Zimmerman trial Monday with a quote full of expletives, while his adversary decided it was appropriate to tell jurors a knock-knock joke.
'F*****g punks, these a******s all get away,'" Guy quoted Zimmerman.
A witness has said Martin was on top of Zimmerman, Guy said.
"We are confident that at the end of this trial you will know in your head, in your heart, in your stomach that George Zimmerman did not shoot Trayvon Martin because he had to," Guy said.
In the first day of testimony, jurors heard witnesses recount Martin's trip to the convenience store, Zimmerman's call complaining about a suspicious person walking through his neighborhood before Martin's killing, and a call from the previous August, in which Zimmerman reported an alleged burglary to police.
O'Mara also accused Tracy Martin of using an obscenity toward a friend of Zimmerman's while holding the door for him during a hearing two weeks ago.
But Nelson denied the request, and Martin remained in court -- but Zimmerman's parents were covered by the rule regarding potential witnesses and had to sit outside, as did Benjamin Crump, the lawyer for Martin's parents.
Following Guy's statement, defense attorney Don West came forward to woo the jury.
Who's there?
Good, you're on the jury," he said.
... George Zimmerman is not guilty of murder.
"Little did George Zimmerman know at the time in less than 10 minutes from him first seeing Travyon Martin that he, George Zimmerman, would be suckered punched in the face, have his head pounded on concrete and wind up shooting and tragically killing Trayvon Martin," West told jurors.
"At the moment this actually became physical was that Trayvon Martin -- I will use my words -- that Trayvon Martin decided to confront George Zimmerman," West said.
He had plenty of time.
"He called it a 'ground and pound' by Martin, who he said was on top of Zimmerman, beating him."
Shortly afterward, according to West, Zimmerman said Martin "was beating me up, and I shot him."
"Travyon Martin armed himself with the concrete sidewalk and used it to smash George Zimmerman's head," said West.
"What you can really see in these pictures that you will have in evidence are the lumps," West said.
When Zimmerman said he was following Martin, Noffke told him, "Okay we don't need you to do that."
"You did tell him twice to let you know if that guy did anything else," said O'Mara.
Noffke went on to say he only wanted a location of the suspect for officers and that he never told Zimmerman to follow or keep his eye on Martin.