Lisbon, Portugal (CNN) -- Calling it a significant step forward for the alliance and European security, President Obama announced Friday that NATO will develop a missile defense system to safeguard most of Europe and the United States.
By the time it wraps Saturday, the alliance aimed to produce a set of new initiatives intending to reinvigorate and redirect NATO 20 years after the end of the Cold War.
"This strategic concept reconfirms the commitment by NATO members to defend one another against attack, and that will never change," Rasmussen said in Lisbon.
Under the new plan, NATO will bolster its role in counterinsurgency efforts, as well as the stabilization and reconstruction of key countries, according to Rasmussen.
Russia's relationship with NATO and the United States is also a chief focus Saturday.
Obama said Friday that NATO leaders had called passage of the treaty -- which, among other things, would restart mutual nuclear inspections and limit the arsenal in the two countries -- critical to European and global security.
The search for a new mandate for the entire alliance comes at a time that 16 of the 28 NATO members have announced cuts in defense spending.
The difficulty and length of engagement will weigh on decisions by alliance members to intervene or aid in the future.
The new strategic concept will cite current security challenges facing NATO members in the 21st century, such as terrorism, cyber warfare and piracy.
"Those are capabilities that deal with ongoing operations in Afghanistan, but also capabilities to deal with 21st century threats, including beefing up our cyberdefenses and embracing the deployment of missile defenses to protect European territory and populations against the growing threat of ballistic missiles."
The future of some 80,000 U.S. military forces in Europe will also be discussed.
European leaders are looking for Obama to keep U.S. troops at their current levels, although the Obama administration has urged Europe to share more of the burden of its own defense.