(Global Mail) -- The night Bob Hawke lost the Labor leadership 20-odd years ago, I was a tender recruit to the Canberra press gallery who found myself, fortuitously, marooned at the Prime Minister's office door whilst the Labor caucus was dispatching the occupant.
Either she'd been expecting the worst or, more probably, there had been a phone call telegraphing it.
Never before had the Labor Party dumped a serving Prime Minister, yet Hawke's equanimity -- outwardly at least -- was striking.
Hawke, the Labor Party and most Australians knew that Keating had Hawke lined up for the kill.
It has been an undeclared, subterranean campaign to reinstall Rudd in the Prime Minister's office -- one from which the candidate has, until now, been able to stay aloof.
And in the resulting public imagery, it is not Rudd who is seeking to return to the Prime Minister's office; rather it is a semi-reluctant Rudd who is being ferried along by a group of ministers, MPs and Labor fixers who believe the only way that Labor can win against Tony Abbott and the Coalition at the next election is for Rudd to resume the leadership.
The Rudd camp has not wanted to give the Prime Minister a reason to confront them head-on because to do so would be to risk provoking a leadership ballot before Rudd has assembled the numbers he needs -- and it's still doubtful that he has.
But Rudd had to be seen to be drafted by his party back into the Prime Minister's office.
This conspiracy Gillard denies, but the enquiry, Rudd says, is another of those "questions for others."
Hawker is now openly connected to the Rudd campaign's camp and helped advise Rudd that night.
Prompted and legitimized by the leaked video, by midnight Saturday Rudd was on Sky News, effectively sending to the Labor Party and Australians a revised CV that set down his qualifications for another shot at the Prime Minister's job.
The Queensland band of brothers -- Rudd, Beattie and Bruce Hawker -- succeeded, finally, in flushing out publicly the Prime Minister's senior ministerial supporters to concede that which they have been careful for weeks not to: Gillard's leadership is under siege from within her own Cabinet and party room.
Gillard is not going to a ballot, yet, and behaves as if life is business as usual in her dealings with the man she calls her foreign minister, usually (and unusually) not by his name.
Should Rudd force a ballot?
She's wielded that lance before.