Here on this Caribbean island, and on the others that make up what's known as the West Indies, life revolves around one thing -- cricket.
He is Franklyn Stephenson, and he is the best to have never played for the West Indies, all because of one decision he and his teammates made 30 years ago.
In 1983, the West Indies cricket team was on top of the world.
At the same time, a world away, South Africa was deep in the heart of apartheid.
In 1970, the International Cricket Council banned South Africa from international competition, leaving the country's cricket-mad fans deprived of the sport they loved, and their cricketers of the careers they dreamed of.
To save cricket in South Africa, the sport's administrators knew something had to be done.
"From our point of view, we knew we had the best cricketers in the world," said former South African Cricket Union president Joe Pamensky, one of the rebel tour organizers.
And it wasn't long before many began suspecting South Africa was also targeting a team from the West Indies, the dominant force in world cricket.
Captain Clive Lloyd said no amount of money could get him there.
"I made the decision because I wasn't getting treated right as far as the West Indies (team) was concerned," said King.
He had repeatedly turned down offers to play in South Africa.
"I knew the tour was more important than being just cricket," Stephenson said.
"When we got to South Africa, I realized that separation, and it wasn't only black and white," he said.
"We packed them in," said Murray.
It seemed South African fans couldn't get enough of the black cricketers from the West Indies.
They say the presence of a team of black men in South Africa did not help end apartheid, but instead strengthened and supported it.
Even within the country itself, non-whites protested the West Indies rebels.
When the month-long tour was over, the rebel players knew they would have to face the repercussions of their decision back home.
"Many of them were destroyed as cricketers," said University of West Indies Professor Hilary Beckles.
His wife gave birth to their baby daughter in Australia, while Murray was playing in South Africa.
He is now a golf instructor at a country club in Barbados.
For the players, their lives defined by this single moment in sport history, each day is a reminder of what they lost by going to South Africa.
And to this day, they hold strongly to the belief that being in South Africa in 1983 made a difference in disbanding apartheid, less than a decade after the West Indies players were there.
"I know I went there as a missionary," King said.
You've got work to do."
"Well, yes I was a mercenary for black people's cause, because wherever I've been, I've been an ambassador for my country, my race and the game of cricket.