So this week I'm empowering people with information about swine flu: how to protect yourself, what all the numbers mean and why you shouldn't freak out.
Hasn't swine flu been around for a while?
From 1976 until 2005, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention received approximately one report every year or two of humans with swine flu.
It appears that no one in the United States with swine flu had any contact with pigs.
Swine flu is transmitted from animals to humans.
Yes, you should, unless it's essential.
That's the advice from a recent CDC travel warning.
Young, healthy people struck dead in Mexico.
Swine flu, he said, "is not spreading all that rapidly.
But, Schaffner added, this doesn't mean we shouldn't pay attention to swine flu.
How close do you have to be to a sick person to get swine flu?
If you think you might have sustained contact with someone who's ill, read this guidance from the CDC's Web site.
Could I get swine flu from them?
That's why people with the symptoms of any kind of flu -- fever, diarrhea, body aches, vomiting, etc.
Yes, a swine flu vaccine was given to 45 million people in 1976.
"The designation of each one was called the swine flu, but from a viral standpoint and spreading it is quite, quite different."
Usually we think of flu as affecting the very young and the very old.
For example, in 1918 when a new flu virus emerged, many of those stricken were young and healthy.
Why are large numbers of people dying in Mexico, but not in other countries?
Other explanations: that in Mexico people have, in addition to swine flu, other viruses that make for a more deadly combination than swine flu alone.
Could this new swine flu virus have been manufactured by bioterrorists?
"If you were a bioterrorist you'd want to create something that's a lot more deadly than this," said Dr. Gerald Evans, an associate professor of microbiology at Queen's University in Canada.
Will that help protect me against swine flu?
But he said it might be possible.
No.
If someone with swine flu touches a doorknob, then I touch it, could I get swine flu?
So theoretically, you could get swine flu from touching a doorknob that was just touched by an infected person.
What should I do if I develop symptoms of swine flu?
He might not want you in the waiting room spreading germs to others," he said.