One in four Americans takes a sleep aid every year, according to the National Sleep Foundation, and the numbers are even higher for women -- one in three uses some sort of sleep medication a few times a week.
No wonder so many sleep aids are available.
A: More than a third of Americans experience occasional insomnia, which is defined as a few nights of restlessness, poor sleep, or trouble falling asleep.
Health.com: How much sleep do you need?
Health.com: Health risks of snoring and sleep apnea
A: Many sleep experts aren't fans of OTC sleep aids because the meds don't usually help people with significant insomnia.
OTC sleep aids are best for people who have occasional sleep problems.
"They last about three or four hours, so you could take another pill up until about 3 a.m. because it would metabolize before you wake up," says Ana Krieger, M.D., a sleep specialist at New York University.
Here's why: "Alcohol becomes a stimulant about three to four hours after you drink it, so you're actually working against your sleep medication," Arand says.
Why?
"Then eat dessert without any alcohol and wait as long as possible before taking your sleeping pill."
A: Not usually, Arand says, "but some sleep meds can suppress dream recall."
Tolerance is a common problem with all sleeping pills: After taking them for a while, you need more than the usual dose to help you sleep, which may lead you to think you're addicted.
Q: I've been taking sleeping pills for several months.
Then, stop taking the drug altogether.
A: You might have some trouble, Krieger says, though it's less likely with the newer pills -- these include Rozerem, Sonata, and Lunesta.
Rebound insomnia is one of the reasons some experts recommend CBT over sleep medications.
Melatonin, a sleep hormone your body makes naturally, and the herb valer­ian may be helpful (both are available at drugstores), but some experts feel there's a lack of research to back up the effectiveness of these supplements.
Before using any supplement, check with your doctor; combining them with other medications -- sleeping pills or otherwise -- can be risky.