We've compiled a list of 10 of the best.
Share your views by using the Sound Off box below and we'll publish the best.
Bruce Lee's last movie before his untimely death, this is him at his very best.
He has appeared in very few major releases, but has already made a huge impact.
"Ong-bak" is the perfect showcase for his extraordinary skills: whether he's fighting a roomful of people or taking part in the most exciting chase we have ever seen -- jumping through rings of barbed wire and sliding under moving cars while doing the splits -- he makes this film every bit the martial arts spectacle.
Kill Bill 1 & 2 (Quentin Tarantino, 2003/2004)
Quentin Tarantino is a movie geek -- specifically, a B-movie geek -- and kung fu has long held a place in his heart.
Every eye-catching detail of this touching and beautiful film works.
It spawned a spate of copycat films, while thousands of children signed up to after-school karate; everyone now knows how to defend themselves by waxing on or off and that the best fighting move is obviously The Crane.
This is one of the films that got him noticed in the United States.
When he fights, Chan is unstoppable: he uses every prop on the set and puts himself in enormous physical danger.
Referenced several times in Tarantino's "Kill Bill" films, this forgotten classic must have set a record for the amount of blood spilt as our hero crosses the country on a revenge mission.
Once described as "the best kung fu football film of all time," this is one of the more ridiculous films of the genre.
And it's one of our guiltiest pleasures.
....................................
....................................
Jean-Claude Van Damme has made some good films, really he has.
Where the original might have inspired you to take up karate, this would put you off the sport, and probably kung fu movies too.
The first "Under Siege" was a surprisingly good film, and Hollywood's best martial arts expert acquits himself well, but this follow up is laughable.
Seagal still fights like the best, but has lost the ability to speak, and whispers his way through the dialogue.
The fights are impressive, but the rest of the film smacks of a cash-in -- they even use footage from Lee's actual funeral.