Election authorities projected Enrique Peña Nieto of the Institutional Revolutionary Party, or PRI, as the winner Sunday night.
On the local level, there may not be many differences between today's PRI and the political party that dominated Mexico for decades, said Andrew Selee, director of the Mexico Institute at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars.
Sunday's election was closer than many expected, Selee said, and Peña Nieto and PRI party leaders realize they secured a narrow victory.
And it's unclear how influential leaders from the party's old guard -- some of whom have close ties with Peña Nieto -- will be, he said.
Chabat said.
He is a young, outgoing personality," said Cuellar, who describes Peña Nieto as a friend and flew to Mexico City over the weekend to support the candidate.
Weeks before Sunday's vote, criticisms of Peña Nieto and concerns about the PRI's possible return to power fueled a student movement that has staged demonstrations throughout the country.
said Ana Maria Salazar, a security analyst and former Pentagon official who lives in Mexico City.
"In a country like Mexico, where we already have a high incidence of violence due to organized crime, add to that social unrest, and it could be an explosive mixture," she said.
"We are going to have all the information and at that time we will establish a position," he said.
He essentially demobilized his supporters," Selee said.
...
Some political opponents of Pena Nieto, whose party governed Mexico for more than 70 years until 2000, have warned that negotiating with drug cartels and gangs could be on his agenda -- an accusation that Peña Nieto has repeatedly denied.
In a statement the next day, Peña Nieto's campaign said he was committed to combating organized crime.
...
I want to use a different strategy,' " Cuellar said, noting that relations between the United States and Mexico would likely strengthen under Peña Nieto's leadership.
In speeches, it sounds really great to say that you're going to do things differently, but there won't be many changes."