Tokyo (CNN) -- Engineers will need six to nine months to bring the damaged nuclear reactors at the Fukushima Daiichi power plant to heel, the plant's owners said Sunday in their first public timetable for ending the crisis.
Tokyo Electric spokesman Hiro Hasegawa acknowledged that public pressure helped speed the company's decision to release a plan and warned that the outline remained tentative -- "but we will do our best" to stick to it, he said.
The leaking water comes out full of such particles as radioactive iodine and cesium, the byproducts of the reactors.
At the plant on Sunday, workers used remote-controlled robots to record radiation, water and temperature data in the building that houses reactor No.
"At this point, we do not have any decisions or discussions about resigning, as all our efforts is towards resolving the situation," Katsumata said.
1 and No.
That may make it more difficult to carry out one of the first stages of their planned cooling process, filling the concrete primary containment shell around the reactor pressure vessel with water, Hasegawa said.
Hosono said there is no indication this pool is compromised or leaking highly radioactive water or fumes, calling the planned structure a protective measure given concerns about considerable damage to the main No.
4 nuclear reactor building.
In Iitate, a village Edano visited Sunday, government figures released Sunday show cumulative doses of radiation since the accident are already more than half the 20-millisievert limit the government
Workers stopped a severe leak of contaminated water into the Pacific Ocean on April 6, but elevated levels of the short-lived nuclear waste iodine-131 recorded over the weekend could indicate a new problem, a Japanese safety official announced Saturday.
Iodine-131 has a radioactive half-life of eight days, and the increase could be either from a fresh leak or from sediment stirred up while placing steel panels around the intakes, said Hidehiko Nishiyama, the top spokesman for Japan's Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency.
"At this point, they have not visually found any leakage of any water into the ocean, and it is hard to check the conditions around (reactor) No.