"Most Arab states are actively supporting Israel against the Palestinians -- and not even shy about it or doing it discreetly."
Now it's the extremists -- the Muslim Brotherhood, Hamas, Hezbollah, and their backers Iran, Qatar and Turkey -- against Israel and the more moderate Muslims including Jordan, Egypt, and Saudi Arabia."
Hamas, which has controlled the Palestinian government in Gaza for years, is an extension of the Muslim Brotherhood.
"The Muslim Brotherhood is international, with affiliated groups in more than 70 countries, including Saudi Arabia and the UAE," says Eric Trager of the Washington Institute for Near East Policy.
"From the perspective of Egypt, Saudi Arabia, Jordan, the UAE and some other Arab states, what the Israeli Prime Minister is doing is fighting this war against Hamas on their behalf so they can finish the last stronghold of the Muslim Brotherhood," Younes says.
Abdel Fattah el-Sisi, the former military chief, deposed Egypt's first freely elected leader, President Mohamed Morsy of the Muslim Brotherhood, last year following mass protests against Morsy's rule.
"In Egypt you have a regime that came to power by toppling a Muslim Brotherhood government," says Trager.
The new Egyptian government has been "cracking down aggressively since it removed the brotherhood from power," Trager says.
Hamas rejected it.
The monarchies of Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and Jordan have called on Hamas to accept the cease-fire proposal as is.
Qatar supported Egypt's Muslim Brotherhood government, and built "an Egypt-centric Al Jazeera network that became known for its strongly pro-Muslim Brotherhood line," says Trager.
Qatar also funds many Muslim Brotherhood figures in exile, including Hamas political leader Khaled Mashaal, who is believed to have orchestrated numerous Hamas terrorist attacks.
"Erdogan has tried to use the cause of the Brotherhood to bolster his own Islamist credentials at home," says Trager.
In 2012, Meshaal left Syria as the country's civil war deepened -- a decision believed to have caused a breakdown in his relationship with Iran as well, says Firas Abi Ali, head of Middle East and North Africa Country Risk and Forecasting at the global information company IHS.
"There's fault lines within the Palestinians between Hamas and the other part of the Palestinian Authority.
Fatah and Hamas have long fought each other, but earlier this year made another effort at a unity government.
"And the one chance of reasserting his authority through a unity government that would have forced Hamas into a subordinate and less militant role has now disappeared.