He's broken every record in the book and won a glut of Olympic and world titles, but even at the age of 40, Haile Gebrselassie has no intention of resting on his laurels.
"I don't know how long I'm going to live after this, but I hope the next 100 years!"
Throughout his glittering career stretching over two decades, Gebrselassie has proved an impeccable ambassador for track and field.
Disappointments have proved few and far between since his first competitive race at the age of 14 and while still in his teens he captured a 5,000/10,000 meters double at the world junior championships in Seoul.
The next year in 1993 saw Gebrselassie's senior breakthrough as he claimed the first of four straight 10,000m world championship titles after a battle royal with Kenyan Moses Tanui in Stuttgart.
Metronomically lapping the 400m track at just over four-minute mile pace for over three miles, he says that as he ran the beat of the 1995 hit song "Scatman (Ski-Ba-Bop-Ba-Dop-Bop)" kept ringing around his head.
Gebrselassie won his first Olympic gold at Atlanta '96 over his favored 10,000m distance, just edging out his arch-rival Paul Tergat.
But over distances from 10 km through half-marathon and the full marathon, the records have tumbled.
Successive wins in the Berlin marathon in 2007 and 2008 each came with world bests, the second of two hours three minutes and 59 seconds -- the first man under the two hours four minute mark.
Years of disciplined training, getting up at 5 a.m. each morning, have left Gebrselassie a battle-hardened veteran and have helped him in his life outside of track and field.
One of 10 children, he used to run several kilometers each day to school and back to his family's small farm.
My training started when I was two.
"The more good things you have, the less athletes you have.
You don't see so much athletes from the city, most of our athletes they come from the countryside."
Without a role model it's not an easy job," he says.
"What is that?
Allied to his incredible talent and will to win, Gebrselassie has certainly "won for himself" in bundles down the years -- dominating distance running and becoming one of the most recognizable sportsman on the planet.