During his reign before retiring in 2012, as worsening income inequality and official corruption fueled mass discontent nationwide, Zhou oversaw the domestic security budget swell to surpass that of the two million-strong Chinese military -- the world's largest.
Zhou was also expelled from the Communist Party, according to state news agency Xinhua, citing a decision made Friday at a meeting of the party central committee's political bureau.
"The important thing here is that Xi has proven he's powerful enough to break this taboo of never incriminating former Politburo Standing Committee members," said longtime political analyst Willy Lam with Chinese University of Hong Kong.
His political skill shone when he was transferred to the oil ministry in Beijing, which later became a giant state-owned oil company and one of Zhou's power bases.
Overcoming factional wars in the ministry, Zhou was said to be a decisive leader who focused on expanding domestic oil exploration as well as overseas projects, a two-pronged strategy that would continue to this day.
Zhou also developed strong local ties and planted officials loyal to him -- including secretaries he brought from Beijing -- in key postings throughout the province.
As the leadership prioritized security and stability above all else, Zhou greatly expanded police power at the expense of already-limited judicial independence, cementing his reputation as a ruthless hardliner among political dissidents and activists.
Political activists and observers now note the similarity between the Bo and Zhou cases.
Those close to Zhou have fallen with him.
The biggest impact was felt in the domestic security apparatus, state oil industry and Sichuan province -- three places Zhou once ruled.
Zhou's older son, who is 42, is said to own multiple luxury properties worth millions of dollars.
"I think, unlike Bo Xilai, Zhou Yongkang will cooperate with investigators because his family is involved," said analyst Lam, predicting a suspended death sentence for both Zhou and his older son.