But that was far from the only secessionist movement in American history.
Beaver Island, a small island in Lake Michigan, became the home of Mormon leader James Strang and his followers -- called Strangites -- in 1848.
However, most of the island's inhabitants were his followers, so he essentially became King of Beaver Island.
The state of Superior
), affectionately known as "Yoopers," have been trying to secede and form the State of Superior since as far back as 1897.
This animosity continued into the mid-1980s, when 20,000 signatures were collected and submitted to the state for a secession request.
The Great Republic of Rough and Ready
But just three months later, as the Fourth of July approached, The Great Republic of Rough and Ready wanted to have a celebration (which seems odd considering they were no longer technically Americans).
The townspeople voted themselves back into the Union on the very same day and the party went off as planned.
After numerous legal attempts to have the checkpoint removed, on April 23, 1982, Key West mayor Dennis Wardlow declared the Florida Keys were seceding from the Union.
One minute later, Wardlow turned to the Admiral in charge of the U.S.
The State of Absaroka
Feeling that the Democratic southern half of Wyoming was not working in conjunction with the rest of the state, a secessionist movement was launched by northern Republicans in 1939 to create a new state that would better serve its more conservative population.
Despite all of the hoopla, the state never came to be, and now, so many years later, the intent of the secessionist movement is in question.
The State of Jefferson
To help rally their cause, they developed a state flag made up of a gold miner's pan with two black X's inside, representing the double-cross they felt the Oregon and California state governments had pulled.
While the official movement might have died out, the residents of this region still hold the concept in their hearts, with many identifying themselves even today as the population of the great state of Jefferson.
Noel, Missouri, located in McDonald County in the far southwest corner of the Show Me State, has been a popular tourist destination for many years.
To display their dissatisfaction, McDonald County drew up papers of secession and presented them to the state legislature, declaring itself the independent McDonald Territory.
So in order to end this mock rebellion, the state declared that state employee retirement pension payments would be suspended for McDonald County, all current state employees would be fired, and all state funding would be withheld.
Fellow Mental Floss writer Jeff Fleischer has the story on the AIP:
Using the vote as his platform, Vogler ran for governor in 1974 -- and soon made a habit of it.
I've got no use for America or her damned institutions," Vogler spearheaded the Alaskan Independence Party (AIP), and his campaign has twice topped 5 percent of the vote.
Today, the AIP continues to draw about 4 percent of voters statewide.
On a brighter note, honoring his wish to never be buried in U.S. soil, Vogler was laid to rest in Canada's Yukon Territory.