Legal and medical experts believe the decision will have a lasting impact on genetic testing, likely making varieties more widely available and more affordable.
The Supreme Court case involves Myriad Genetics, a Utah-based company that was sued over its claim of patents relating to two types of biological material that it identified -- BRCA1 and BRCA2, whose mutations are linked to increased hereditary risk for breast and ovarian cancer.
Since Myriad owns the patent on breast cancer genes, it was the only company that could perform tests for potential abnormalities.
Among those challenging the Myriad patents were sisters Eileen Kelly and Kathleen Maxian.
Money was not an issue for them, but Kelly and Maxian, along with a coalition of physician groups and genetic counselors say Myriad has not made the BART tests widely available for patients without a strong family history of these kinds of cancers.
Myriad has said it has spent several years and hundreds of millions of dollars in its research.
On one side of the Myriad case, scientists and companies argued patents encourage medical innovation and investment that saves lives.
The Supreme Court has long allowed patent protection for the creation of a new process or use for natural products.
Complementary DNA is artificially synthesized from the genetic template, and engineered to produce gene clones.
"Genes and the information they encode are not patent-eligible under [federal law] simply because they have been isolated from the surrounding genetic material," said Justice Clarence Thomas, who wrote the 9-0 court opinion.
Because of this ruling, patients will have greater access to genetic testing and scientists can engage in research on these genes without fear of being sued."
"I hope that this ruling will lead to more women at risk of breast cancer being able to get access to gene testing and to take control of their lives, not just in the U.S. but around the world -- whatever their means and whatever their background," she said.
The case is Association for Molecular Pathology v. Myriad Genetics (12-398).