Without food or water, cut off in every way from life on the surface, in a world lighted only by the head-lamps on their helmets until the batteries died and left them in profound darkness, the men struggled to escape and then prepared to die.
At 8:06 p.m. October 23, 1958, in Springhill, Nova Scotia, one of the deepest coal mines on Earth collapsed, with 174 men underground.
Eighty-one men struggled to the surface, battered but alive and speaking of horrors below.
In Springhill, each rescuer crawled on his belly into the collapsed mine with a hand-ax, chipped away at the rock, filled a bucket, passed it back to the man lying behind him, who passed it to the next man in line, and in that painstaking way, a single bucket of rocks reached the surface.
In one cave a mile below the surface, seven men awoke from the crash in rock prisons; at a deeper elevation, 12 men found themselves walled in together.
These men had known the underground walkways and tunnels as well as their own neighborhoods; now, all was twisted beyond recognition.
Each of the leaders (the researchers later concluded) was a man short on words and poorly educated, handy with equipment, with a good navigational sense but poor interpersonal skills, confident that he would find or chop a way out.
The energy and optimism of the dexterous leaders lasted for about three days and gave out along with the food, water and lamp batteries.
Then he realized that the mine disaster probably caused the schools to close, and he felt lonely again, not knowing where his daughter was.
Men longed to take back words spoken in anger.
Now, in both groups, new leaders arose.
Their peaceful voices -- they spoke a little bit about God, a little bit about their certainty that rescuers were looking for them -- calmed the other men.
In one of the groups, the second leader, the sharer of hope, was Afro-Canadian.
He, almost alone among the miners, couldn't be said to have a best buddy on the crew.
The rescue of the trapped miners after five days for the group of 12 and seven days for the group of six (a lone man was found alive elsewhere) was celebrated worldwide with breaking news reports, live footage and jubilation.
Georgia was segregated; only one motel, solely for whites, existed on Jekyll Island.
Thus was the fellowship that existed underground -- between black and white, educated and uneducated, those of legitimate birth and those born "out of wedlock" -- gradually dissolved by the bright light of day.