(CNN) -- More than 4.3 million people tuned in to watch the U.S. women's soccer team beat Japan in a 2-1 victory in the gold medal Olympic game.
She went public with her lupus diagnosis in April 2012 and is now working with the Lupus Foundation of America to create awareness about this chronic autoimmune disease that affects 1.5 million people in the U.S.
We caught up with Boxx after the London Games to talk about her diagnosis and how she deals with it as an elite athlete.
You have lupus, in addition to Sjogren's Syndrome -- another autoimmune disease.
I deal with fatigue and joint pain just like with lupus, but it also affects my skin, my eyes and my mouth.
Now add in a disease where my main symptoms are extreme fatigue and joint pain, and that standard becomes a little bit more difficult to maintain.
I have the mentality that this disease is not going to beat me.
The medicine I am on now helps control the amount of "flare-ups" I may have, as well as control the amount of inflammation in my body.
The best solution for me is, if I start to feel more fatigued than normal, I will train lighter that day or even just take it off completely.
I understand that people with lupus and/or Sjogren's range from mild to severe and no two people are alike in their struggle with either of these diseases.
You've just begun to talk publicly about your battles with autoimmune disease.
As I am nearing the tail end of my career, I have realized it is a lot more important to use my voice to help bring awareness to lupus and Sjogren's.
If I can help spread the word about what lupus or Sjogren's is and what the symptoms are, maybe I can help get people in to visit a doctor sooner.
Do I push through and maybe do more damage to my leg and maybe hurt the team in the process, 'cause I'm not 100% (and in the worst case scenario, be out for the rest of the tournament): or do I take myself out and give our team the chance with a healthy body in there?
My hamstring healed and I was able to start in the final game and help my team to an Olympic gold medal.