The truth is, she could more correctly be called a gift from one artist to the world.
He went door to door, office to office, presenting the vision and meeting with rejection.
But with the well wishes of a few staunch supporters, he kept driving onward, winning other commissions to pay the bills and building Liberty piece by piece in Paris, paying for each section as soon as he could drum up donations.
Liberty remains.
Bartholdi could foresee that future.
But still it seems a bit amazing Bartholdi should go largely unrecognized for his work of art.
She is an echo of an era when people sought to produce wonder and ecstasy in their fellow citizens purely for the sake of creating a fabulous artifact of human possibility, even if their personal fame might vanish before the work did.
Thomas Edison proposed a colossal phonograph inside Liberty to make her "talk."
"When I discover a subject grand enough, I will honor that subject by building the tallest statue in the world," Bartholdi said in his 20s, 30 years before he unveiled his statue.
I worry we have lost our sense of the importance of sharing our talents for the common good, partly because there is so much economic pressure put on the middle class, with stagnating wages and rising costs for housing, food and more .
And we compound the pressure by stealing the work of our inventors and artists, leaving them no means to actually survive.
Anyone not connected to a company is required to double pay Social Security taxes as well as burdensome health insurance premiums (even with Obamacare).
Now I know that Bartholdi created his work for more than altruistic purposes.
In Bartholdi's day, you could try something big and if it didn't work out, you would have your disappointment, but you could still pay the doctor in barter.
People flock to see this colossal Sphinx.
They wait on noisy Kent Avenue for a fleeting taste of this rarity, for a sign we might still have space for human invention ... that we can all share in what humanity can achieve.