European leaders Saturday held telephone talks with Russian President Vladimir Putin and his Ukrainian counterpart after a Ukrainian military plane was shot down by separatists, killing all 49 people on board, officials said.
Hollande and Merkel expressed their deep concern about the ongoing fighting in eastern Ukraine, particularly Saturday's attack, the Elysee Palace said.
In a phone conversation with Hollande, Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko urged the European Union to immediately consider sanctions against Russia, including the termination of "military-technical cooperation," Poroshenko's office said.
"The goal us to take back control of Ukraine over the state border and provide adequate response to terrorists," he said.
"Regarding sanctions, we have said that we want to give Russia the opportunity to pursue de-escalation," NSC spokeswoman Laura Lucas Magnuson said in the statement.
The plane was also carrying military machinery and supplies, the ministry said.
The person who left it was spotted but fled without detonating it.
Ukraine's acting Interior Minister Arsen Avakov claimed Thursday that three Russian tanks had crossed the border into Ukraine as part of a larger armored column, prompting a skirmish between Ukrainian and Russian forces.
But the United States also believes tanks and heavy weapons have crossed into Ukraine from Russia after moving from a deployment site in southwest Russia, State Department spokeswoman Marie Harf said Friday.
On June 11, 10 main battle tanks can be seen at the site, NATO said.
In fact, they do not have markings at all, which is reminiscent of tactics used by Russian elements that were involved in destabilizing Crimea," the NATO statement said.
Other separatists are hiding in homes and basements for safety, he said.
Four Ukrainian soldiers were injured in the operation, he said.
Pro-Russian separatists wielding automatic weapons and grenades attacked Ukraine border service vehicles Saturday near the city, Ukraine's State Border Service said.
The leaders discussed Poroshenko's peace plan to resolve the situation in the east of Ukraine, it said.