They faced their fears when US Airways Flight 1549 hit a flock of geese and crash-landed in the Hudson River.
"The first time people meet you, they want to hear the sensational part" of the crash, says Ben, 39.
A buyer for Belk department stores, Laura was in New York for the fashion market.
"No," she said.
Waiting to board, she fired off e-mails and thought little of the flight home or those around her.
He was in 20A, a window seat on the left side of the plane.
Laura, who didn't notice Ben, thumbed through a Glamour magazine.
About 90 seconds into the flight, the plane -- traveling at 250 mph and carrying 150 passengers and five crew -- struck a flock of geese.
"The whole back of the engine was pretty much engulfed in flames, just shooting out of the back," he says.
Some thought they were going back to LaGuardia.
Three rows in front of him, Laura thought about calling her family.
If I die, what a depressing message that would be to leave on a message machine, she thought.
She'd jumped at the chance to take on a bigger role with Belk in Charlotte.
Ben was a Carolina native, and he also poured his energy into work.
Her bird phobia was rooted in days on the farm, where her grandmother kept chickens.
Ben's fear -- of drowning -- went back to an experience he had when he was 8.
As the plane glided silently through the air, Ben peeked out the window every once in a while.
Water lapped at Laura's leather boots.
"Dad, this is Laura.
I've been in a plane crash."
A flight attendant in first class waved passengers to the front.
Ben thought about the woman with the long legs and curly hair.
In the media blitz that followed, Laura noticed Ben for the first time on television.
Six months after the crash, when about 20 survivors and their families gathered at a home near Charlotte, Ben and Laura met in person for the first time.
"We connected," Laura says.
"We were family," Ben says, "and we didn't want to ruin that aspect of it."
Ben never sits at a window seat.
"It put me back in that seat," she says, tears in her eyes.
She doesn't know whether to throw them out or save them.
Her relationship with Ben, she says, is another "positive outcome" from that day.
"Think about how you want to write today's page," Ben says.