Manila, Philippines (CNN) -- As the bodies of eight tourists killed in a bus hijacking in the Philippines arrived in Hong Kong, China, on Wednesday, the Hong Kong government urged citizens not to take their grief and anger out on Filipinos despite "the poor way" the hijacking was handled by authorities.
He added that Hong Kong is prepared to aid the Philippine authorities during the investigation.
Two of three remaining hospitalized victims had been expected to be released from Philippine hospitals in time for the flight, but it was not known if they were on the plane that landed in Hong Kong.
Former police officer Rolando Mendoza, who was apparently upset about having lost his job, took hostage a busload of tourists from Hong Kong on Monday.
Rodolfo Matibay, district director of Manila police, took responsibility for how the incident was handled, saying he ordered the police assault on the bus, according to Gen. Leocaldo Santiago, regional director of Manila police.
Santiago said police killed none of  the hostages, though a ballistics investigation has yet to be completed.
In Hong Kong, flags also were lowered and traders at the Hong Kong Stock Exchange paused in silence.
At the Hong Kong Management Association David Li Kwok Po College, students and faculty remembered Jessie Leung, 14, who was killed along with her father and sister.
In Manila, a makeshift shrine was erected in front of the bus, with flowers left for the victims.
"We do not want to pass sweeping judgment or make early conclusions except to say that our intention to peacefully end this hostage drama was spoiled when the hostage-taker suddenly exhibited violent behavior and began shooting the hostages," Philippine National Police Chief Director Gen. Jesus A. Verzosa said Tuesday in a statement.
Gordon said survivors said the situation inside the bus changed dramatically toward the end of the 10-hour standoff.
...
He said that he was probably going to die, but not the hostages," he said.
"When he saw his brother getting accosted by the policemen, he went berserk and he started firing," he said.