When a story doesn't make sense, it means you don't know the real story.
A current and highly publicized example of this phenomenon can be seen in the case of a group of teenagers attending a single school in Le Roy, New York, who have developed strange movement disorders in rapid succession.
If ever there were a story that doesn't make sense, this is it.
Let's apply that logic to the situation of the afflicted young people of Le Roy.
At first glance, Tourette's syndrome is an attractive explanation for the Le Roy tic epidemic.
It occurs in young people.
But I can assure you that the young people of Le Roy do not have Tourette's for one simple reason: It is a rare condition and it is a solitary disorder.
So whenever a doctor hears about a group of people living close to each other in the same location who develop the same disease, his or her first thought should be that the illness has either an infectious or environmental cause.
If it has an environmental cause, then other people in the area are at risk.
Even if you didn't know that all blood tests in the affected young people have been normal, you could effectively rule out infection for one very simple reason: All but one of the people who have developed tics are female, and all but one are teenagers.
But the problem with an environmental explanation is similar to the problem with an infectious one.
And unless the poison was brand new in the environment, why would so many people get so terribly sick so quickly?
Surprisingly, the answer is yes.
The essence of a conversion disorder is the development of a neurological symptom -- such as the tics seen in the young people of Le Roy -- for which no neural abnormality can be found.
But having conducted these interventions, and more, I can assure you that people can be completely incapacitated by symptoms with no obvious medical cause.
People can catch these conditions from each other.
No one likes conversion disorder as an explanation for the tic epidemic.
Certainly, I don't.
The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Charles Raison.