(OPRAH.com) -- One of the small sorrows of my adult life is being married to a man who won't eat tongue.
"So?"
"It was curled -- you know, like that Rolling Stones logo," I say, "only brownish gray, and covered in cream of mushroom soup, and, um...." I realize I'm not making headway.
She is an adventuresome cook who is utterly incapable of eating an egg if the white and yellow aren't combined.
She can eat omelets and scrambled eggs.
No one starts out life with an aversion to eggs or tongue-- or, for that matter, to liver, okra, lima beans, or any of the dozens of other foods many people come to revile as adults.
Indeed, according to Paul Rozin, Ph.D., professor of psychology at the University of Pennsylvania and an expert in disgust and food choice, there are only a handful of flavors our brains are hardwired to reject, and all are typical of foods that historically had a high likelihood of making us sick -- spoiled things like moldy bread and sour milk, and bitter things like caffeine.
That's it.
He admits that we generally grow to dislike foods that remind us of our bodily functions, guts, or mortality -- which might explain why liver (and other mealy, pasty foods) and oysters (and other squishy, slimy foods) put off so many people.
As Capaldi says, "The disgust mechanism is a very, very powerful thing.
Any revulsion you feel toward a food is magnified by the thought that it will become part of you.
After four weeks of therapy and nutritional counseling, he managed to add salad to his diet; hot food still made him gag.
Why?
You, too, might bide your time, hoping for a box of Cap'n Crunch to float in on the waves.
We constantly add new things -- goji berries, lemongrass, Splenda -- and reject others -- chicken nuggets, say, after seeing Food, Inc. "You can think yourself into an aversion," says Capaldi.
"In China, the sensation of a thing in your mouth is part of the pleasure of eating it," says Fuchsia.
It's fun to try negotiating your way through a chicken wing with your teeth and tongue."
Take "thousand-year-old eggs," made by submerging raw duck eggs for three months in a brew of ash, lime, tea, and salt.
Much as I'd like to coerce my husband into eating delicious, slow-cooked beef tongue, I have to accept that only he can decide what to him is delicious, and what remains banished forever to the land of utter yuck.
By Celia Barbour from O, The Oprah Magazine © 2010 Harpo Productions, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
TM & © 2011 Harpo Productions, Inc. All Rights Reserved.