Days after the bruising fight at the end of 2012 to avert the fiscal cliff that divided the House GOP conference -- as well as his own leadership team -- a dozen House Republicans broke with Boehner by not supporting him for speaker in the public vote on the House floor.
Boehner succeeded at tamping down the public splits among House Republicans -- at least for now -- and adjusted the expectations for his members.
But the dysfunction and gridlock after those demands hit a wall with a majority Democrat Senate and Obama, sending Congress' approval ratings plummeting.
Ryan, the House Budget Committee chairman, said the GOP was still determined to force Congress to take up major deficit-reduction measures, but summed up his message to reporters after a session with all House Republicans.
Acknowledging that another contentious face-off with the White House over the debt limit wasn't likely to end well for them, Boehner worked with a small group of members that included Ryan and other leading conservatives to come up with a plan to postpone that fight.
That so called "Boehner rule" -- any increase in the debt limit had to be accompanied by spending cuts of the same size -- was only going to run into another public clash with the White House.
South Carolina Rep. Mick Mulvaney, one of the dozen House Republicans who didn't vote to reelect Boehner speaker, told reporters after the retreat that he agreed it was better to push off the most contentious battle.
The tone coming out of the retreat signals that leaders convinced many of those pushing for broader changes that they need to rethink how realistic it is to send proposals out of the House only to hit a wall in the Senate.
Rep. Steve Scalise of Louisiana, who heads the Republican Study Committee, a group of fiscal conservatives, was part of the group Boehner tapped, along with Ryan, to devise the three-month debt-ceiling extension.
And House Democrats called the requirement for Congress to pass a budget a "gimmick."
Boehner told House Republicans at the retreat he'll look at what the administration is proposing, but he doesn't plan for the House to take any action until the Senate passes something, and that could be an uphill battle.
Rep. Greg Walden, who runs the House GOP 2014 campaign operation to retain and expand their majority, told reporters he tapped Rep. Jamie Herrera Beutler, the youngest female House member and a Hispanic, to help with outreach.