Her parents bought it in the hope that Knox would be home for Christmas.
Now, as closing arguments in Amanda Knox's appeal come to an end, one thing remains the same for the Knox parents: A plane ticket home.
In 2009, Curt Knox and Edda Mellas (they divorced in 1989) boarded a plane to Italy for the verdict in their daughter's murder trial.
Prosecutors alleged at trial that on the night of November 1, 2007, at a small house in the college town of Perugia, Knox directed her then-boyfriend Rafaelle Sollecito and a third defendant Rudy Guede, to hold Kercher down as Knox played with a knife before slashing Kercher's throat.
Knox's parents, like her defense attorneys, said their daughter was not involved in the murder and that evidence presented at trial was thin and clouded by shoddy police work.
The dispute over forensic evidence has prompted many Knox supporters to question how the Italian court arrived at a conviction.
An independent forensic investigation they fought for at trial could help overturn the convictions in the appeal, the attorneys said.
During the murder trial, defense attorneys challenged key DNA evidence found on the alleged murder weapon, a knife, and on Kercher's bra clasp, arguing it had been contaminated after being left for weeks at the crime scene..
The next battle in the appeal was to dismiss evidence that prosecutors said ties Sollecito to the murder scene.
At trial, the prosecution said a bra clasp found on the bloodied crime scene floor had Sollecito's DNA on it and proved he was in Kercher's room when the murder occurred.
Curt Knox said he feels there is "no case left" against his daughter.
And that's something he said his daughter is clinging to.
Before asking the jurors to uphold the conviction she told them that the original court had concluded "beyond any reasonable doubt" that blood from both Knox and Kercher found in the bathroom sink had been left there when Knox washed herself after the killing.
Guede, who was convicted earlier of the crime, has admitted being in the villa where Kercher was killed, but has said an unknown assailant killed her while he was out of the room during his trial.
Bongiorno also attacked the media portrayal of Knox as a "femme fatale," which he said swayed the outcome of the trial.
Curt Knox is more hopeful.