Qadri said his aim was to set an important precedent that might allow other scholars to similarly condemn the ideas behind terrorism.
Diane Ravitch: The influential education historian, who served as assistant secretary of education under President George H. W. Bush, "is in the final stages of an astonishing, slow motion about-face on almost every stand she once took on American schooling," reports Sam Dillon in today's New York Times.
She said, "They make sure that all their students study the arts, history, literature, geography, civics, foreign languages, the sciences and other subjects.
Jaime Escalante: The 80-year-old former Los Angeles, California, math teacher is fighting cancer, and KTLA-TV reports that his family members say they don't have the money to pay all of his medical bills.
When Escalante protests and his students take the test again -- with one day of preparation -- they pass.
Like all great teachers, he changed lives.
Nick Schuyler: On March 2, 2009, the former University of South Florida football player was rescued by the Coast Guard from his overturned boat in the Gulf of Mexico.
In a book released this week, "Not Without Hope," written with New York Times sportswriter Jere Longman, Schuyler tells the harrowing story: "We began to huddle together, cuddling almost, trying to stay warm as the night went on.
Irene Folstrom: "Tiger Woods was my boyfriend for a year and a half while we were both undergraduates at Stanford.
"This may surprise some people, but Tiger was a great boyfriend."
"Our relationship ended when Tiger turned pro after his sophomore year," she writes, "I wasn't willing to give up my studies to follow him.
There are people who enter the news cycle every day because their actions or decisions are new, important or different.
They do make news, but the action is usually more important than who is involved in the story.
We hear about them and want to know more.
We want to know what makes them tick, why they believe what they do, and why they did what they did.