A mammoth blizzard that dumped as much as 3 feet of snow in parts of the Northeast headed out to sea Saturday, as workers across New York and New England struggled to get airports, trains and highways back online.
"We had a bad storm here with heavy, heavy snow -- starting with a wet snow early, which stuck to the trees, which brought them down on the power lines, and then the temperatures dropping and then high, high winds all combining to a lot of power outages.
But as most of the heavy snow tapered off, a travel ban across Rhode Island, Connecticut and Massachusetts was lifted at 4 p.m.
Hundreds of cars were stranded on the Long Island Expressway in New York after motorists got stuck driving in the snow.
Postal worker Karlene Calliste left her job around 3 p.m. Friday, got caught in the storm and ended up sleeping at a firehouse in Middle Island, New York, where dozens of other stranded residents were holed up.
They weren't prepared," she said, adding that a lack of snow plows contributed to the scores of cars and trucks left stuck in the snow.
At least nine people were killed in accidents related to the storm -- five in Connecticut, according to the governor, two in Canada, one in New York and one in Massachusetts -- a 14-year-old Boston boy who was helping his father shovel snow.
In Poughkeepsie, New York, an 18-year-old woman lost control of her car in the falling snow and struck a 74-year-old man walking near the side of the road, police said.
Massachusetts, Connecticut and Rhode Island ahead of the storm ordered all non-emergency vehicles off the streets under threat of imprisonment and fines -- up to a year in jail and $500 in Rhode Island.
At its height, the storm heaped snow on the state at a frenzied rate of 4 to 5 inches an hour.
"This state had consequences, but nothing like our neighboring states," said New York Gov.
The states hardest hit in terms of power outages were Massachusetts and Rhode Island.
"We were just happy to be indoors and not out there," she said.
The nor'easter has swatted down travel arrangements for pro basketball teams headed to New York City, leaving the New York Knicks, San Antonio Spurs and Brooklyn Nets grounded.
The San Antonio Spurs, who were originally flying to New York to play the Brooklyn Nets on Sunday night, are stuck in Detroit.