Johnson has fashioned himself the "clear alternative" to Republican candidate Mitt Romney and President Barack Obama in November's presidential election.
Johnson first ran for governor of New Mexico -- a state with a majority of Democratic voters -- in 1994 as a Republican.
The most notable third party presidential contenders are from the 1800s -- John Tyler, Andrew Johnson -- and even they were largely independents because their original parties disowned them.
The last third-party presidential candidate to make a significant run at the White House was Ross Perot in 1992.
And Johnson, who first announced his candidacy as a Republican, only switched to Libertarian when his campaign failed to gain much traction during the primaries.
Johnson says he is more liberal than Obama on social issues and more conservative than Romney on fiscal issues.
"No other third party is going to come close to this 50 ballot access," Johnson says proudly.
"We should take it as a compliment," he said, that the party establishment doesn't want him on the ballot.
"The only way I am (going to be) president of the United States is if I am in the national debate between Obama and Romney," Johnson said.
But Johnson isn't putting all his stock in being included in the debates.
It is unusual that the Libertarian candidate for president is being forced to court other libertarians, but that's exactly what Johnson has to do with the unflinchingly loyal base of libertarians who support former Republican hopeful Ron Paul.
the former governor asks.
Or to me?"
When making his pitch to Paul supporters, Johnson lists a litany of positions on which he and the former candidate agree.
"Gary is very much in line with Dr. Paul on many issues," said Jordan Page, a performer who traveled with the Paul campaign.
Johnson endorsed Paul in 2008, when the Texas congressman was running for president, and when Johnson dropped out of the race as a Republican in 2012, he urged his supporters to vote for Paul in the Republican primaries.
"We don't have contact with the Ron Paul campaign," Johnson said bluntly.
"I am the Libertarian nominee for president," Johnson said.