Houston is born in Newark to gospel singer Cissy Houston.
Also while in her teens, Houston sang backup for Chaka Khan on "I'm Every Woman," a song Houston would re-record in 1992 that went on to become one of her biggest hits.
Houston's debut album, "Whitney Houston" is released.
1, according to Houston's website.
Houston marries R&B singer Bobby Brown.
Houston appears with Kevin Costner in "The Bodyguard."
The soundtrack to "The Preacher's Wife" becomes the biggest-selling gospel album in history, according to Houston's website.
In a now-infamous interview with ABC's Diane Sawyer, Houston admitted to using drugs but denied using crack.
"The show aired during the worst years of the couple's crumbling marriage: drug use, lifestyle excess and bad behavior were all caught on tape, and Houston's reputation sunk to new lows," according to Biography.com.
At some point, Houston's mother, Cissy Houston, steps in.
You do it my way or we're not going to do this at all,'" Houston recalled in the interview.
Houston and Brown separate.
Houston is seen ordering and consuming considerable quantities of alcohol at the Beverly Hilton hotel before 10 a.m., according to a source briefed on her behavior and activity in the days before her death.
Houston is seen jumping in and out of the pool and doing somersaults in the pool area, the source said.
(Price said Monday that Houston was not behaving erratically and "I didn't see someone who was high" although she said Houston did drink champagne.
3:43 p.m.
Houston's body is flown back to her native New Jersey.
Houston's death certificate is filed in Los Angeles.
Medicine and pill bottles found in Houston's hotel room are currently undergoing basic testing, but nothing so far indicates anything criminal occurred, the source says.
Family, friends and fellow stars remember Houston's voice, love and -- most of all -- faith at her homegoing service at the New Jersey church in which she grew up.
CNN's Don Lemon and Alan Duke contributed to this report.