Government forces shelled Aleppo neighborhoods, and Free Syrian Army rebels squared off with government soldiers in and around the city, the opposition Local Coordination Committees of Syria said.
This regime is planning for a big massacre in Aleppo," Abdulbaset Sieda, head of the Syrian National Council, told reporters in Abu Dhabi.
At least 160 people were killed across Syria on Saturday, the LCC said.
Fighters have been preparing for a major confrontation, and security forces continued military buildup with reinforcements from Raqqa province and other regions, opposition groups said.
She said the regime is shelling displaced people from Homs and Idlib who've taken refuge in Aleppo, and thousands of them have had to evacuate yet again.
"I believe that the escalation of the military build-up in Aleppo and the surrounding area is further evidence of the need for the international community to come together to persuade the parties that only a political transition, leading to a political settlement will resolve this crisis and bring peace to the Syrian people," he said in a statement.
Russia and China -- major trade allies with Syria -- have vetoed tough resolutions on Syria at the U.N. Security Council.
One Free Syrian Army commander said the regime has labeled the confrontation for the city as the "mother of all battles."
Regime forces are preventing fuel and food from entering Aleppo neighborhoods controlled by rebel fighters, opposition activists said.
The United Nations and Western countries, fearing widespread death and destruction, have urged the Syrian government to call off an offensive in Aleppo.
The LCC said dozens of people were killed across Damascus and its suburbs, and others died in Idlib, Deir Ezzor and Hama provinces.
Fighting over the Syrian issue flared across the border in the Lebanese city of Tripoli on Saturday.
While Sunnis have a significant presence in the Syrian regime, they are also dominant in the opposition movement.
A.K.
Russia has been a longtime arms supplier to Syria, but it has said it will not deliver new weapons to Syria as long as the situation there is unstable.
He confirmed the move on Al-Jazeera TV on Saturday.