The January 22, 1973, Supreme Court decision legalizing abortion remains the law of the land, passions remain high on both sides of the issue, and protests are held each year on its anniversary.
"Much of the controversy about abortion is really stimulated by the interest groups on both sides of the political question, rather than by ordinary Americans," said David Garrow, a law professor at the University of Pittsburgh, and a longtime Supreme Court scholar.
The Roe decision did not prompt "abortion on demand," as many opponents of the procedure had predicted it would.
Bans on abortion in the United States began early in the 19th century.
It was not until the 1960s that an organized movement was launched to ease the laws regulating abortions.
The legal fights culminated with Roe v. Wade, the court's 7-2 decision giving women a qualified constitutional right to abortion during most of the pregnancy.
"Prior to Roe," said Garrow, "whether one could obtain a legal abortion in the face of an unwanted pregnancy was a crapshoot.
But the ruling was a qualified one, and that fact has been used by abortion opponents in their efforts to narrow the scope of other abortion provisions.
After Roe, the high court affirmed the right to abortion in subsequent cases: striking down provisions requiring a husband's consent for a first-trimester abortion; requiring parental consent for an unmarried woman under 18; striking down efforts to expand on laws requiring women to give informed consent before having an abortion; striking down a 24-hour waiting period; and striking down a law requiring doctors to inform women of the risks and of assistance available if she were to carry the fetus to term.
More important, the three conservative justices said, a compelling government interest need not be required to justify restrictions on abortion.
The decision (also 5-4) reaffirmed the heart of Roe while giving states the power to regulate procedures so long as they did not impose an "undue burden" on a woman's right to abortion.
Another legacy of Roe: The head-counting of justices on the court, a what-if scenario that could lead to the overturning of Roe.
In the meantime, conservatives in Congress have promised to push for tougher restrictions on access to abortion, though many political experts say the goal is not necessarily aimed at overturning Roe.
The legal sticking point was that the law lacked a "health exception" for women who might suffer serious medical complications, something the justices have said in the past is necessary when considering abortion restrictions.
The law on abortion was evolving at the time of Roe, Ginsburg recalled in 2005.
If there is one overriding legacy of the Roe decision, it may be that it opened and expanded the debate on the rights of women, sexuality, health care, and medical decisions.
As significant as it was, Roe v. Wade was only the beginning of the battle.