Three days later, doctors at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston said a brain biopsy revealed a tumor, known as a malignant glioma, in the left parietal lobe.
Many patients do not have genetic risk factors, and any connections with lifestyle are not clear, said Dr. Larry Junck, head of the Neuro-Oncology Program at the University of Michigan Comprehensive Cancer Center.
But the majority are glioblastomas, especially in older patients, said Dr. Tara Morrison, a neuro-oncologist at the Fox Chase Cancer Center in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
The senator's treatment was  "the standard of care for anyone with a malignant glioma," Morrison said.
The goal of this kind of surgery is to remove as much tumor as possible, Morrison said.
Despite the enthusiasm about this relatively new treatment, no evidence exists that shows proton-beam therapy is better than conventional therapy at getting rid of the tumor, nor does much data support the claim that it does less harm to healthy tissue, O'Rourke said.
Treating malignant gliomas is especially hard because they grow in essential parts of the brain, so it's difficult to get every harmful cell out with surgery, Morrison said.
The cancer cells also infiltrate structures beyond what a scan can show, she said.
Friedman said the evidence for Avastin's benefit against recurrent tumors is so compelling that he's taken a "leap of faith" and includes the drug in the regimen for newly diagnosed glioblastoma patients whenever possible, even when they don't qualify for clinical trials.
Researchers take a portion of the tumor and grind it up with white blood cells from the patient, in hopes that the blood cells will learn to fight the cancer cells, Junck said.
"Perhaps more importantly, when you start treating these patients, if those changes in the MRI go away and it appears to be less aggressive, we may be able to say that our treatment is working," O'Rourke said.
Already the researchers can use the MRI method to see if the patient is responding to treatment, and can make treatment selection based on it.
High-profile people such as Kennedy, who are battling malignant brain tumors, have increased awareness of the condition, O'Rourke said.
"I think in the next 10 years, we're going to see a situation in which we can really classify glioblastomas... and select the appropriate treatments accordingly," he said.