But only 47 percent of Americans now feel abortion should be legal in all or most cases, a drop from 54 percent a year ago, according to the poll.
"These data suggest that a number of people have changed their minds in the past year," said Gregory Smith of the Pew Forum on Religion & Public Life, one of the survey's authors.
The only groups whose opinions on abortion did not change were African-Americans -- who tend to oppose it -- and young people and those not affiliated with any particular religion, who tend to say it should be legal, he said.
Pro-lifers are making an effective case that all women deserve better than abortion and that every child deserves a chance to be born," said Cathy Ruse, the senior fellow for legal studies at the anti-abortion Family Research Council in Washington.
Flip Benham, a Dallas, Texas-based anti-abortion activist, said the survey reflected a change he had already seen taking place.
"When the church will come out into the streets, we win the battle," said Benham, director of operations for Operation Save America.
It is a blessing," she said, citing the Rev.
She fled to her parents' home.
She said it was important to distinguish between people who oppose abortion and those who want it to be against the law.
"Look at the timing," he said.
Opponents of abortion feel more strongly about it than supporters of legal access, he said.
They are concerned that Obama will go too far in supporting abortion rights as president," he said.
About four out of 10 people in the survey could not define Obama's position on abortion.
Tiller was shot in the head at point-blank range on May 31 as services began at Reformation Lutheran Church in Wichita, Kansas.
Anti-abortion activist Jim Pouillon, 63, was shot dead outside a school in Owosso, Michigan, on September 11.
The Supreme Court, the country's main legal battleground on abortion, has ruled only once on the hot-button subject since 1992, in a close 2007 decision that upheld federal restrictions on a controversial late-term abortion procedure called "partial birth abortion" by its opponents.
About 2 percent of American women age 15-44 had an abortion in 2005, the latest year for which the institute has information.
The new findings come from a telephone survey of more than 4,000 adults in August 2009, conducted by the Washington-based Pew Forum on Religion & Public Life and the Pew Research Center for The People & The Press.