There's still a Sunshine State for folks like us -- it's "Old Florida."
Sometimes thought of as "Forgotten Florida," I'm talking about the more northerly portions of the state.
Here, oaks draped with Spanish moss stand guard over saw palmetto and vivid flowers.
And you can enjoy it all without devastating your wallet and facing large or pretentious crowds.
Cedar Key
Art is a big part of the town, with all manner of public displays popping up.
With such a relaxed atmosphere, Cedar Key has a bit of a Key West vibe -- minus the all-night party atmosphere.
But if you want to escape to another time where simple pleasures rule, Cedar Key is the place.
Homosassa Springs Wildlife State Park
The birds in particular are spectacular, but you can also see bears, bobcats and gators -- oh my!
At $13 for one adult, the admission is more than is typical for Florida state parks, but it's worth it.
If you get tired of swimming in the brisk, limpid waters, you can explore the lush surrounding forest on a boardwalk and trail.
Stephen Foster Folk Culture Center State Park
You can also enjoy Foster exhibits, including old pianos and desks he used.
The nearby town of White Springs has some pretty old homes, too.
Apalachicola oozes "Old Florida" charm.
Set alongside a namesake bay and river, this town has one foot in the workday world of harvesting the Gulf's riches and the other foot in artsy boutiques and the like.
I stayed across the bay in nearby Eastpoint, which is even smaller, more blue collar and boutique-free.
St. George Island State Park
It's often cited in Top 10 Florida beach lists, and with good reason.
St. Joseph Peninsula State Park
There didn't seem to be as much beach and parking for visitors, but the green and blue waters and soft sands were just as inviting.
A carload of folks gets in for $2 more.
The park has trails for hiking, but the big attractions are the swimming area and the one-hour riverboat rides, which are well worth the $8 for an adult.
I had the cool swimming area to myself on a weekday in October, but I imagine it's filled up with splashy, happy children in northern Florida's hot summer weekends.
You can't go any higher up and still be in Florida.
The gray water was still plenty warm for swimming in October.
For my last meal in "Old Florida," I skipped the seafood and ate at The Happy Tomato.
What other parts of "Old Florida" have you explored and would recommend?