Because of CNN's report, the Senate and House passed new legislation Thursday to close the loophole that could have allowed family members of some lawmakers to profit from inside information.
The STOCK Act requires that any trades of $1,000 or more made on or after July 3 have to be reported to the House and Senate within 45 days.
In the Senate, the Ethics Committee released one page of guidelines in June ruling that members and their spouses and dependent children all have to file reports after they make stock or securities trades.
The Office of Government Ethics, which oversees all federal executive branch employees, sided with the House, informing its employees that their spouses and children don't need to file these periodic reports.
After CNN told Brown about the House interpretation, Brown fired off a letter to his GOP colleagues in the House, Speaker John Boehner and House Majority Leader Eric Cantor.
Robert Walker, a Washington ethics attorney and former chief counsel for both the House and Senate Ethics Committees, explained that the Senate bill did include a provision that covered spouses and children, but when Cantor's office wrote the House version, this language was shifted to a different section of the bill.
The Senate Ethics Committee decided to stick with the spirit of the law that senators originally intended, but the House Ethics Committee went with the letter of the law, which included the loophole not requiring spouses and children to report financial transactions in a timely fashion.
The financial disclosure forms House members and senators were already required to file only come out once a year, making it tough to track any relationship between legislative action and a stock trade.
But when pressed with the new information uncovered by CNN, the majority leader's office conceded it made changes to the House bill that effectively took out the requirement for spouses and children to file these reports.
In the two weeks since CNN's report, Cantor's office consulted with the Senate to determine how they should fix the loophole.
Including family members in our monthly disclosure requirements was an integral piece of restoring that faith, and I am pleased the House will finally join the Senate in conforming to these important new rules," said Gillibrand.
In addition to closing the loophole for spouses and dependent children, the new legislation passed by the House and Senate also made a change that the Obama administration requested.
To address those concerns, the bill gave executive branch employees a waiver from the requirement to disclose their stock or securities trades until September 30 to allow some additional time to determine the appropriate procedures for those officials.