CARL AZUZ, CNN STUDENT NEWS ANCHOR: It's the best day of the school-week and you're about to get a front-row seat to world headlines without a single commercial.
I'm Carl Azuz!
Five other people were killed in the shooting.
AZUZ: Arizona Representative Gabrielle Giffords is a survivor of the shooting.
She's one of six people still in the hospital, and the only one in critical condition.
Around 400 people have died, many are missing.
In some spots, the only dry areas you can see are roofs and tree-tops.
By Wednesday, you can see what was going on.
Me
me.
AZUZ: Many consider Martin Luther King the face of the civil rights movement.
And in 1963, he helped lead the march on Washington where Dr. King gave his famous "I Have a Dream" speech.
That proposal became law in 1983 and the first nationwide observance of the Martin Luther King holiday was in 1986.
Many people use it as an opportunity to help out with community service projects.
Critics say it shouldn't be up to the federal government to decide what schools are allowed to serve -- that it's a state or local issue.
What is the atomic symbol for gold?
The Latin word for gold is aurum; that's why its symbol is Au.
AZUZ: Gold, money and dreams: A dangerous combination that has been the downfall of many and the success of a few.
But why gold instead of other metals?
POPPY HARLOW, CNNMONEY.COM ANCHOR: We're gearing up to go two miles deep into one of the biggest gold mines in the country.
Here, in Barrick Gold's Cortez Mine in rural Nevada, more than one million ounces of gold were mined last year alone.
In fact, you can't even see the gold in this mine.
RANDY HAGER, GOLD MINER:Yes.
HAGER: There's gold in this.
Tiny particles of gold that will eventually make up a gold brick.
About 10 ounces of gold - 10 to 15 ounces of gold at $1,400 an ounce.
HARLOW: So, after the gold ore is mined, about 400 tons of it goes in massive trucks just like this one.
HARLOW: Barrick mines gold for around $300 an ounce, and gold is selling for record highs, around $1,400 an ounce.
And I don't know any other job in this world that can -- I get paid for what I get paid and survive now these days, the way the prices are.
HAGER: There's job security here with gold that high.
AZUZ: It's something people can play by day, and by knights.
Enjoy the Martin Luther King holiday, and we'll see you on Tuesday!