Gunmen halted the van ferrying Malala Yousafzai through her native Swat Valley, one of the most conservative regions in Pakistan.
Two suffered non-life-threatening injuries, but bullets struck Malala in the head and neck.
Malala was left in critical condition.
Now, it is nothing short of a miracle that the teen blogger, who fights for the right of girls to get an education, is still alive and even more astounding that she suffered no major brain or nerve damage.
And beyond her hospital room, a world sympathetic with her ordeal has transformed her into a global symbol for the fight to allow girls everywhere access to an education.
Malala wrote in her online diary about intimidation tactics the Taliban used in the Swat Valley in northwest Pakistan to coerce girls into not going school.
The militants vowed that if Malala survived, they'd go after her again.
"We will certainly kill her," a spokesman for the Pakistani Taliban said.
Government officials in Peshawar, the main city in the northwestern region where Malala is from, observed a minute of silence in her honor.
The United Nations launched a campaign for girls' education named "I am Malala."
Malik proclaimed that the two other girls injured in the attack on Malala -- Kainat Riaz Ahmed and Shazia Ramzan -- will be honored with the third-highest military award, the Star of Courage.
Brown, who heads up the "I am Malala" campaign in his role as United Nations special envoy on global education, toured Pakistan to boost education with international funding and local initiatives.
Malala was taken by helicopter from one military hospital in Pakistan to another, where doctors placed her in a medically induced coma, so an air ambulance could fly her to Great Britain for treatment.
More than a week after being shot a world away, Malala got back on her feet again, able to stand when leaning on a nurse's arm at Queen Elizabeth Hospital in Birmingham.
She has returned to her family and continues therapies as an outpatient at the hospital where she will undergo further surgery on her skull.
In an interview with CNN, Khan's sister apologized to Malala for his alleged involvement.
Doctors at Queen Elizabeth hospital will replace the piece of skull extracted in Pakistan.
From her hospital room in the UK, Malala asked early on for her school books, so she could study for exams she wants to take when she arrives back home in Pakistan.
She is all about education.