"Your children and our children -- nobody should really go through what we're going through now," said Rachel Fraenkel, whose son Naftali was among three Jewish teens kidnapped and killed on the way home from school in the West Bank last month.
Israel blamed Hamas.
Afterward, speaking to media, she said, "I just want to turn to Palestinian parents and say maybe you can stop Hamas from using you as human shields and your death as propaganda."
Some Palestinian parents visited her family after Naftali's death and they had very good conversations, she said.
The Gaza Health Ministry said Wednesday 695 Palestinians have been killed in the fighting, including 166 children.
The Israeli military said 230 militants have been killed.
Three more Israeli soldiers were killed Wednesday, bringing the total to 32 plus three civilians.
Hamas has said it is holding an Israeli soldier it captured in an ambush on an armored personnel carrier Sunday.
"There seems to be a strong possibility that international humanitarian law has been violated, in a manner that could amount to war crimes," U.N. High Commissioner for Human Rights Navi Pillay said Wednesday.
It is imperative that Israel, Hamas and all Palestinian armed groups strictly abide by applicable norms of international humanitarian law and international human rights law," Pillay said.
Some Israeli officials rejected Pillay's statements about Israel.
The Israeli military, meanwhile, said it hit more than 187 targets overnight, and most of them were in Shaja'ia.
An IDF force found another "terror access shaft" in Gaza on Wednesday, Israel said.
The al-Wafa hospital, near hard-hit Shaja'ia, "is a Hamas military compound," the Israel Defense Forces said Wednesday.
On Wednesday, the IDF said militants used one to escape the Israeli military.
Kerry shuttled between Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu in Tel Aviv and Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas in the West Bank on Wednesday.
Hamas leader Khaled Meshaal said from Doha, Qatar, that Hamas' demand that Israel end an air, land and sea blockade of Gaza is their most important demand.
Turkey and Kuwait are involved as well, a Hamas official told CNN.