"Greg, we're under attack," Stevens told Gregory Hicks.
Republicans once again accused the Obama administration of trying to cover up the fact that it was a well-orchestrated assault by militants, failing to adequately explain events to the public, and then refusing to cooperate with congressional investigators.
Hicks -- praised by Republicans as a "whistleblower" but who says he has since been effectively demoted -- was joined at the witness table by Eric Nordstrom, a former regional security officer in Libya, and Mark Thompson, the State Department's acting deputy assistant secretary for counterterrorism.
He then said that Stevens was at a hospital that was controlled by a group that he said Twitter feeds identified as leading the attack.
He told me that Ambassador Stevens had passed away," Hicks said.
Oversight committee Republicans continued to go after televised remarks by U.N.
"No, there was none," Hicks said.
In fact, Hicks said during the hearing that he was told by the Libyan president soon afterward that elements with possible terror links were thought to be behind the assault.
Dempsey told Congress it would take up to 20 hours to scramble the aircraft to get to Benghazi; Hicks said he believed it would take two to three hours.
"They were furious," said Hicks.
Committee Democrats accused Republicans of engaging in a "smear" campaign.
For its part, the State Department also accused House Republicans of playing politics with the tragedy.
Some congressional Republicans previously sharply questioned Clinton over the administration's explanation of events and the state of security at the compound at the time of the attack.
In her testimony, she acknowledged a "systematic breakdown" on Benghazi and said her department was taking additional steps to increase U.S. security at diplomatic posts.
Hicks said he received a call from Mills, who he added was not happy that a State Department lawyer -- described by Republicans as a minder --  was excluded from a briefing on Benghazi in Libya with Hicks, a Republican congressman and others.
He said in a written statement that Mills had, in fact, called Hicks to support him.