A pilot who virtually grew up in airplane cockpits, writer William Langewiesche set out to analyze what happened in the five-minute flight of US Airways 1549, which lost power in both engines when it collided with a flock of Canada geese.
...
"Many good things happened, but they all related to the individual strength of the people involved.
Langewiesche, international editor for Vanity Fair and author of six other books, was drawn to the story because it allowed him to use it as a window to tell the tale of the aircraft, the Airbus A320, a controversial plane built with digital controls that rein in pilots who exceed safe flying limits.
In an interview with The New York Times, Sullenberger said, "There are some situations where the automation will protect a pilot, but at the same time a highly automated airplane makes possible other types of errors, so it's a mixed blessing.
William Langewiesche: I realized that because this airplane is the A320, which is a revolutionary plane, not just any airplane, the story of the A320 is in many ways the story of the modern airline industry of the last 20, 30 or 40 years.
...
...
Langewiesche: It was sort of a normal flight until the challenge of the flare itself, when the nose rises just before touchdown, that was a different flare for various reasons.
It happened so late in the flare that my gut feeling is that it was kind of irrelevant, that the inertia of the airplane was going to dominate the landing and so it probably doesn't matter.
Langewiesche: Of course, it's justified.
Langewiesche: The decision he made to go into the water as opposed to trying to return to LaGuardia [Airport].
Langewiesche: The role of the pilot had been downsized.
And with deregulation, the salary of the pilot had been downsized.
The emotions that this airplane produced still linger.
Langewiesche: We're not looking at technology as the reason for the decline of pilots.
Langewiesche: Pilots, of course, are central.
Langewiesche: If you look at new pilots coming in now, these guys are as competent as the older guys, and they're being paid a lot less money.
Langewiesche: The problem is that the accidents that get the most attention are the ones that kill the most people -- with this one being an exception.
Let's face it, airlines are extremely safe, specifically because of the contributions of the people involved in this success story -- the pilots, the engineers, the flight controllers, the flight attendants.
...
Clearly, they were flying a fly-by-wire airplane, and that's part of the story.
There's no argument here from my side.