The similarities are plentiful.
Rep. Jeff Denham, who represents California's 10th Congressional District, is actively lobbying his Republican colleagues to get on board behind immigration legislation that includes a path to legalization.
It is a big issue for California and for my home district."
"We have a path to citizenship and it's a path that has been followed by millions of legal immigrants who have obeyed all of our laws," McClintock said.
He met with 20 Republican members to hash out their differences on immigration.
Denham and McClintock epitomize the challenge that lies before House Speaker John Boehner regarding immigration reform -- a divided party with divergent views on immigration.
The principles Boehner unveiled at last week's Republican retreat sought a middle ground -- a path to legalization but not citizenship, and only after those already in the country get in the back of the line and the federal government provides proof that work is continuing to secure the border.
McClintock represents a predominately Republican district, which overwhelmingly voted for Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney in the 2012 election.
McClintock and Denham "reflect the complex topography of California, but at the same time, their positions are reflected in their constituents," Lai said.
"I've seen it in my own home district where families have been torn apart," Denham said, describing the current maze of immigration laws and enforcement.
"I can tell you the sentiment in my district is very strongly for the rule of law and assuring that those who come to our country come with the intention of becoming Americans," he said.
Rosemary Jenks, executive director of Numbers USA, a group that favors a reduction of immigration, said McClintock is more in line with Republican voters' views.
The California Chamber of Commerce has been active, pushing Republicans to get on board with immigration reform.
Michael Ayala, CEO of the Tuolomne County Chamber, located in California's 4th District, says immigration isn't a priority for county residents.
Denham called discussions at the Republican retreat productive and said he's pleased that Boehner floated a starting point.
"The Republican Party has always stood for the rule of law and it has welcomed legal immigrants to the country with the desire to come and be Americans and I believe we should continue to do so," he said.