I see signs of a revolution everywhere.
I see a revolution in the attitudes of everyday Americans.
I see it in the faces of good parents, uprooting their lives to get medicine for their children -- and in the children themselves, such as Charlotte, who went from having 300 seizures a week to just one or two a month.
I see this medical marijuana revolution in surprising places.
"Marijuana...?"
I waited for the other shoe to drop, but it didn't.
I had my own turn around a couple of years ago, and at the time it was a lonely place to hold a supportive position on medical marijuana.
Even worse, I didn't even know if they would care.
Just two years later, in "Weed 3," we are eyewitnesses to a revolution in full swing.
This time around, you will hear from the heads of government agencies earnestly sharing their point of view, both Democratic and Republican senators, and even the President of the United States.
In anticipation of a scientific revolution, the production of research-grade marijuana there has increased 30-fold in just the past year.
Make no mistake, we have plenty of evidence that the approval and support of the federal government can fast track a revolution at a faster pace than we have yet seen.
There is now promising research into the use of marijuana that could impact tens of thousands of children and adults, including treatment for cancer, epilepsy and Alzheimer's, to name a few.
They were extolling the potential virtues of the plant, and all of that was before the interview even started.
They want marijuana to be rescheduled.
They want their fellow lawmakers at the state and national level to acknowledge what most of the world, including the citizens of the United States, have known for a long time: Marijuana is a medicine, that should be studied and treated like any other medicine.
And they want all of it now.
Take a good look at the data, educate yourself and talk to the patients, who are often out of options and find their hope in the form of a simple plant.
But, at some point, open questions do get answered.
So, here it is: We should legalize medical marijuana.
And, we should do it now.