(CNN) -- Smoking is bad for you, and by now, most of us know it.
Smoking also elevates the risk of cardiovascular disease, stroke and insulin resistance.
If you are in Kentucky, the state with the highest smoking rate, more than one out of every four people (28.3 percent) around you smokes.
Here's the good news: "Smoking prevalence in the entire country has gone under 20 percent for first time in over 50 years," said Dr. Richard Hurt, director of the Nicotine Dependence Center at the Mayo Clinic.
Here's the bad news: Smoking rates are unlikely to drop to the national health objective of 12 percent by 2010.
According to the American Cancer Society, each day more than 3,500 people younger than 18 try their first cigarette, and 1,100 others become regular daily smokers.
iReport.com: Do you still smoke?
After speaking to his doctor, he received a prescription for Chantix, a pill to aid with smoking cessation.
"If smoking is so dangerous ... why then do they want to charge $139 to make me stop?
Said Lisa "Smith," 44, a recently laid-off administrator from Minnesota, "I began smoking in junior high school because I wanted to fit in with a certain crowd.
"There is a lot of research right now that shows that smoking in the movies has made a comeback.
...
...
Dimmitt recalls "ashtrays in church pews, smoking in the classroom and blowing pipe smoke all over the students!"
Now, smokers in some places face smoking bans in certain public and private spaces, and unspoken -- and sometimes overt -- hostilities.
Dulcie Long, 50, of Denver, Colorado, said, "I won't say I feel actual 'social discrimination,' but it is something I feel a sense of shame about and do my best not to smoke in the presence of friends.
...
Some groups of severely disadvantaged people have smoking rates of 30 to 40-plus percent."
Plenty of celebrities -- like actresses Salma Hayek, Katherine Heigl and Eva Longoria Parker -- have been caught, cigarette in mouth, by the paparazzi.
Said Hurt, "This is only product that I know on the face of the Earth which, if it is used as recommended by manufacturer, kills 60 percent of its customers."