Despite a 5-1 victory for his side against Murcia in Spain's Cop del Rey, the Portuguese boss let rip at the referee Paradas Romero's record of showing more then six yellow cards per match.
The incident follows similar controversy in Britain where Manchester United's game against English title rivals Tottenham last month ended in farce when Mark Clattenburg allowed Portugal winger Nani to score despite his clear handball in the build-up.
De Oliveira did not see the incident, but noticed the ball was in the net, so consulted with her linesman and awarded a goal -- sparking scenes of mayhem as the Atletico players protested.
Top English referee Graham Poll sabotaged his hopes of controlling a World Cup final in 2006 when he made a massive blunder in Australia's 2-2 draw with Croatia in a group-stage game in Germany.
French referee Stephane Lannoy was left with egg on his face after allowing Luis Fabiano to clearly handle the ball twice before scoring his second goal in the 3-1 win over the Ivory Coast at the 2010 World Cup.
So I decided to have a talk with him, he said it was chest.
Lannoy had a nightmare match, later sending off Kaka for a second yellow card after Ivory Coast's Kader Keita went down in a heap following an innocuous collision with the Brazil playmaker.
The match official surprised everyone possessing a modicum of visual capacity when he awarded a spotkick despite having a clear view of Acuna's swan-dive, and the home team converted the penalty and went on to win 2-0.
Spohd said that Ahlenfelder initially denied drinking alcohol, but later admitted to consuming schnapps.
Scottish referee Les Mottram managed to be picked for the 1994 World Cup panel despite an embarrassing mistake in a domestic match the year before.
Dundee won their match against Partick 4-0, but English second division side Watford were denied a victory in 2008 when opponents Reading were awarded a goal for a shot which did not go between the posts.
The hapless Northern Irishman scrambled back into his own net and shoveled the ball back into the field of play, and the match ended in a goalless draw.