(CNN) -- Michigan has dealt a tremendous blow to unions, approving a right-to-work measure in the heart of organized labor's industrial stronghold.
Michigan has become the 24th state to adopt a right-to-work law, which removes the requirement for people to pay unions to work at unionized agencies, effectively decreasing union funding and making it less likely that workers choose to organize.
"People need to realize what unions have done for them.
Who brought you workers comp?
"Unions!"
).
While there have been moments of good news for organized labor, including pay bumps for GM autoworkers, industry analysts agree that organized labor no longer holds the sway it once did among America's workers.
So why the downfall of American unions?
These campaigns stigmatize unions and encourage people who are unemployed to resent unions rather than big business leaders, he argued.
"Unions have lost power in the private sector over time because of competition, globalization, and the fact that they don't add any value to worker productivity," said Chris Edwards, an economist with the Cato Institute and a fan of right-to-work laws.
To build jobs in America, Edwards said businesses can't be beholden to mandatory collective bargaining, which can increase wages and expenses without increasing profits.
"Unions are going the way of the dinosaur in the U.S. private sector, which is a good thing for workers and businesses because it will make America more competitive," he said.
"There has been a recognition by both the unions and people who are not happy with unions in the last 12 years or so that unions have been fundamentally the powerhouse between the Democratic party and their electoral math," said Linda Kaboolian, lecturer on public policy with Harvard's Kennedy School of Government.
Union organizers did a great deal to push for President Barack Obama's re-election in key states, including Michigan.
Even if unionized workers cost more, they can often prove to be a higher-quality work force that will last, grow and learn new skills, she says.
She said she does not advocate for or against right-to-work laws.
Businesses understandably don't want to be unionized."