(CNN) -- Nearly 800 classified U.S. military documents obtained by WikiLeaks reveal extraordinary details about the alleged terrorist activities of al Qaeda operatives captured and housed at the U.S. Navy's detention facility in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
The American Civil Liberties Union said in a statement that the documents underscore a need for an independent judicial review of the cases of those being held at Guantanamo.
"These documents are the fruit of the original sin by which the rule of law was scrapped when Guantanamo detainees were first rounded up," Shamsi said.
They also paint in great detail a portrait of al Qaeda as it grew stronger in Afghanistan in the 1990s, prepared for the September 11 attacks and scattered in their aftermath.
The document says Gailani later became one of al Qaeda's few forgers of travel documents.
Al Kazimi escaped from Afghanistan after the fall of the Taliban in 2001 and returned to Yemen, where he continued to train for terrorist attacks, according to the document.
He was allegedly responsible for arranging the travel of Yemeni jihadists to Afghanistan in the 1990s, and when he also moved to Afghanistan, he became a confidant of bin Laden's.
The documents show that detainees' accounts were extensively cross-checked against each other, with at least four detainees confirming that al Kazimi was a bodyguard to bin Laden.
The document notes: "Travel through Iran is a known modus operandi for al Qaeda operatives to get into Afghanistan via a chain of safe-houses and operatives."
According to the New York Times, the documents show that most of the 172 prisoners still held at Guantanamo have been rated as a "high risk" of posing a threat to the United States and its allies if released without adequate rehabilitation.
The British newspaper, the Daily Telegraph, also reports that the documents suggest that much of the evidence used to detain jihadist suspects was flimsy.
Others, according to the New York Times, were not so fortunate despite a lack of evidence.
"The cases of the remaining Guantanamo detainees cry out for independent judicial review."
In other instances the Review Task Force came to different conclusions, based on updated or other available information."