But Small Trades founder Robin Weiss says there are a few things that set her brand apart.
Today, Deysher is the sewing floor supervisor who "makes everything work," Pleam said.
It makes you feel good," she said.
Small Trades is just one brand that will be featured on Zady, a shopping site launching this week dedicated to fashion transparency.
"People care about where their clothes come from, and they want to know the story behind the label."
A series of deadly incidents in the past year in overseas garment factories prompted widespread outrage and calls for companies to improve conditions and oversight.
Co-founders Darabi and Maxine Bédat say they are targeting people like themselves, style-conscious and socially aware shoppers who have outgrown their trendy wardrobe of cheaply made goods.
The two are familiar with conscious consumerism.
"We've seen through the whole farm-to-table movement that people care about where their food comes from," she said.
"Consumers want to feel like they're supporting something positive and authentic, not just rejecting something negative when they buy," she said.
Showing where clothes were made seemed like the natural next step, he said.
"Transparent pricing and ethical manufacturing are part of our core values as a company because we believe they lead to the best products," he said.
Today, people seem to care less about the eco-properties of the goods they buy and more about where they're made.
"I think the fact that sites like mine are able to thrive is proof that there's a demand for ethically made goods," he said.
When it launches this week, Zady will include information on where products are made, the raw material sources and a story about each brand's origin.
Pleam walked them through the process of making garments, while Bédat, a former law clerk at the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda, took notes about cotton sourcing and how knitting machines work.
The last good year was 1998, Pleam said.
"It's just so tough," she said.
"It just gives us our drive and motivation to make Zady work."