But with U.S. and Europe shrinking from the fight, this rag-tag band of civilian volunteers know they could be the first, last and only line of defense if Moscow rolls into this corner of northeast Ukraine.
Now, with Russia estimated to be massing up to 88,000 troops just across the border from Ukraine's eastern frontier, he finds himself marshaling a newly formed self-defense committee.
He and his closest aides, Younis and Olec, are clad in British Army-issue uniforms from the Iraq "Desert Storm" campaign.
Fedorok said they've also been getting refresher courses from friendly Ukrainian army officers in recent days.
But if the Russians roll into eastern Ukraine, it will be very different from the house-to-house urban combat that has previously taken place in the Chechen capital of Grozny.
"As much as anything else, we're put here making a political point.
We know this outpost is only an effort to slow down the Russians," Fedorok said matter-of-factly.
"These are military times," he said as he showed us a little of his hardware: three armored personnel carriers mounted with heavy-machine guns, dug into the earth and camouflaged with branches from birch trees.
The major, who declined to give his name, said the order was to defend the bridge or blow it up if the Russians advanced across the border.
"I prefer to say that we are not pointing our tanks at the Russians but merely looking toward our brothers in case they advance in friendship," he said.
The major said he could scarcely believe he was on high alert to battle troops from Moscow.
The Ukrainian government's National Defense and Security Council estimates the figure at 88,000, but that estimate may include units a little farther from the border region that could be deployed as a second wave in the event of an invasion.
He suggested Ukrainian ultra-nationalists had been threatening ethnic Russians and driving them out of their homes and businesses -- the same accusations that Moscow used as a pretext to intervene in Crimea.