Port-Au-Prince, Haiti (CNN) -- Anger swept Port-au-Prince on Wednesday as protests erupted throughout the Haitian capital the day after election results were announced.
He also said many people feared they would lose out on cash-for-work programs if they did not vote for the government.
"We need someone who has the trust of the people," Lange said.
They chanted "Tet Kale!"
"Since last night, the (electoral council) put our country in total chaos by publishing manipulated results," he said.
"I understand your frustration," he said.
Polls had suggested Martelly, a political novice, had emerged as a front-runner, but the Provisional Electoral Council announced Tuesday night that he had come in third behind former first lady Mirlande Manigat and Jude Celestin, the head of the state-run transportation company who was handpicked by President Rene Preval as his successor.
The Joint OAS (Organization of American States) - CARICOM (Caribbean Community) election observation mission said Wednesday the results were not the last word on the Haitian election.
Martelly's political advisor, Daniel Supplice, said that Martelly was huddling with his advisors to decide how he would proceed but the campaign has already said it will challenge the results.
People have the right to have their vote respected."
The next president of Haiti will inherit the daunting task of leading this Caribbean nation in its struggle to recover from years of dictatorship and poverty compounded by the killer earthquake, Hurricane Tomas and now a cholera epidemic that has sickened almost 100,000 people.
The council said Manigat, a Sorbonne-educated professor and a former first lady of Haiti, led the presidential election with 31.37 of the votes.
The U.S. Embassy issued a statement Tuesday saying that the United States stands ready to support efforts to review irregularities in the vote so that results are "consistent with the will of the Haitian people expressed in their votes.
"A peaceful solution to the current situation is crucial not only to confront the cholera epidemic in the short-term but also to create the conditions in the medium term for recovery and development from the earthquake," Ban said in a statement.
No MINUSTAH," protesters said, referring the United Nations Haiti mission by its French acronym.
It was time, he said, for the government to deliver.