Through various evolutions, the ATP World Tour Finals is now a $5 million tournament that crowns a grueling, long year.
World No.1 Novak Djokovic will seek to top off an amazing season already bulging with three grand slam titles, while defending champion Federer is seeking a record sixth victory in the tournament.
Group A: Novak Djokovic, Andy Murray, David Ferrer, Tomas Berdych.
Rafael Nadal: The 10-time grand slam champion has never won this title, losing to Roger Federer in last year's final.
Andy Murray: Home favorite Murray has again missed out in the grand slams in 2011, losing in the final of the Australian Open to the all-conquering Djokovic and losing to Nadal in the semis at the French Open, Wimbledon and the U.S. Open.
5's best showing in the finals is a runner-up spot to Federer in the 2007 event in Shanghai.
Best known for reaching the 2010 Wimbledon final, this year Berdych has won the China Open title and beat Murray in November's Paris Masters quarterfinals before losing to Federer.
Won his sixth ATP Tour title in late September in Metz and comes into the tournament in good form after reaching the final in Paris.
Players gain points from playing in the four grand slams, ATP World Tour events including eight Masters Series tournaments, and World Group singles matches in the Davis Cup teams competition.
The ATP World Tour Finals is among the most lucrative on the circuit with an unbeaten winner walking away with a check for $1.63 million.
1 ranking from Marat Safin of Russia when he beat American legend Andre Agassi in the final.
The players are divided into two groups of four and play each other once in a round-robin format, before the top two in each pool advance to the semifinals.
A rival tournament, the WCT Finals, was run by the World Championship Tennis Tour and continued to exist in tandem until 1989.
The Association of Tennis Professionals (ATP) took over the running of the men's tour from 1990 and the event evolved into the ATP Tour Championship, but the ITF promoted a rival Grand Slam Cup for the top-16 players with the best records in the four majors until 1999.