His transfer ends the striker's whirlwind two-and-half-year stay with English champions Manchester City, during which time a litany of dust-ups have allowed Balotelli to become a caricature of the modern playboy footballer -- sporting talent and tabloid cult hero rolled into one.
When Tevez, infamous for refusing to come off the substitutes bench during a match last season and subsequently going AWOL for three months, is doling out advise, it might be to seriously consider where your career is headed.
There's the one about Balotelli driving into a women's prison, or the time he reportedly threw darts at youth team players out of a training ground window -- not to mention the impromptu bonfire which burned down his bathroom hours before he became the face of a firework safety campaign.
Vincent Pericard is one former player who has experienced the high of being at a leading club and the low of languishing in the game's lesser leagues.
"The organization is the sum of my own experiences," the former Stoke City and Portsmouth player told CNN.
"It is one thing to look at how a player is physically, but the mental well being of a player is just as important.
It can be the difference between teams going up, getting relegated or reaching the Champions League.
"It is absolutely vital that young players are given support right from the start," said Rebecca Symes, Sport Psychologist from British organization Sporting Success, who argues the amount of psychological support available to footballers decreases as they progress into the first team.
Breaking into a top-flight team can transform a young player's life as they are exposed to the pressures of a voracious 24/7 media and experience a level of financial wealth which they previously would have probably only dreamed of.
"The club needs to produce a culture of excellence," added Abrahams.
"To seek help and accept help that will allow him to fulfil your potential and play until 35 and maybe be the best player in the world," he answered.
Accept the help that people are giving.