Julian Zelizer says interest groups have eroded the quality of America's democratic process.
At the same time, we did learn last week that a firm hired by the coal industry sent fake letters to members of Congress, allegedly from Latino and African-American organizations, opposing climate and energy legislation.
The letters were sent on behalf of an industry group, the American Coalition for Clean Coal Electricity, by a subcontractor, Bonner Associates, a firm that manages grassroots campaigns on behalf of interest groups.
In that film, Warren Beatty played Democratic Sen. Jay Billington Bulworth, a politician who came out of the liberal politics of the 1960s but had become disillusioned by the corrupting life of Washington.
While trying to avoid the assassin whom he hired, Bulworth spends the weekend railing against the power of lobbyists and interest groups in the political process, explaining to citizens in one inner-city neighborhood that politicians will never pay attention to them because they don't contribute enough money.
But interest groups have clearly eroded the quality of our democratic process.
American politics was rocked in 1905 and 1906 by revelations that the life insurance industry had bribed politicians.
Interest groups have also eroded the quality of our political system even when they are not engaged in corruption.
If reports that advocacy groups have been behind the recent outbursts at town hall meetings are true, these revelations would signal a disturbing trend in interest group politics.
The concern is not primarily about rabble-rousers, who frequently emerge on the left and right at these events, employing disruptive tactics that we have seen since the 1960s.
Rather the concern has to do with Washington-based interest groups and lobbyists sending people to local meetings to convey a specific and choreographed message, while preventing debate among actual local citizens.
But citizens and politicians must not tolerate these kinds of activities from interest and advocacy groups -- even those that represent positions that they support.
The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Julian Zelizer.