Benghazi, Libya (CNN) -- Doctors at a field hospital in Martyrs Square in Zawiya said Friday that 17 people were killed and another 150 were wounded when government forces attacked the city.
By the end of the day, the situation was calm in the seaside city, they said.
"They told me they are being shot at and they were doing it in self-defense," Gadhafi said.
"These are our children," he said.
"If you want to pit against one another, then it's up to you," he said.
"Here, the authority is in the hands of the people.
"These acts cannot happen by Libyan men," he said.
Some of the people involved in the opposition, he said, were detained by the United States in Guantanamo.
"We're all in our houses like we're sitting in jail," she said.
A formerly pro-government newspaper in Libya reported Thursday that African mercenaries were shooting at unarmed civilians in Tajura, about 25 miles east of Tripoli.
The woman said unarmed people had been fired on indiscriminately.
She said it was unclear who was behind were shooting.
"People are crying," she said, calling for help from the world.
The hospital in Zawiya is "a disaster," she said, adding that some shooters had entered the hospital and insisted that no one was killed.
Witnesses and reports also said the town of Az Zintan was under opposition control.
Gunfire erupted at dawn Thursday as chanting crowds dispersed.
"There's nobody walking in the street, nobody is trying to get out, even to look through the window," said a resident who, for security reasons, did not want to be identified.
She said she was risking her life by talking to a reporter.
The U.N. Security Council will meet privately at 3 p.m. Friday to discuss taking additional measures against Libya.
The resolution would condemn "the massive and unacceptable violence currently being perpetrated in this country," French Foreign Minister Michele Alliot-Marie said Thursday in a statement.
A ferry chartered by the United States to evacuate U.S. citizens remained in port in Tripoli because of bad weather, diplomatic sources said.
CNN's Richard Roth, Saad Abedine, Waffa Munayyer, Pam Benson, Ben Brumfield, Amir Ahmed, Ingrid Formanek, Eve Bower, Salma Abdelaziz, Mitra Mobasherat and Jaime FlorCruz contributed to this report.