That was pretty much the last thing I remember," Beatty recalled eight years later.
When Beatty came to, his legs were pinned under the wreckage.
It was a life-altering injury, but from the beginning, Beatty had a positive attitude about it.
Beatty spent a year recovering at Walter Reed Army Medical Center in Washington, and he hoped to build a house for his wife and two young sons when he returned home to Statesville, North Carolina.
The land was donated by Beatty's father, and volunteers pitched in to help while Beatty supervised.
When the house was finished, Beatty and Gallina decided to "pay it forward" to help other disabled veterans.
"There's thousands of veterans right here in our midst," Beatty said.
"The Gulf War vets have a lot of issues, and we know there are people who got hurt in Bosnia, Kosovo ... Vietnam," Beatty said.
When Beatty and Gallina heard that he often had to crawl into his bathroom because his wheelchair wouldn't fit through his home's narrow doorways, they decided to help.
Beatty and Gallina also want to help those who can't afford to buy their own home, many from the younger generation.
Beatty and Gallina believe that working with community members makes a big difference to veterans, who can often feel isolated and socially withdrawn.
"When you have people saying thank you (by coming) to your home to swing a hammer and paint a wall, it says something different than shaking your hand and buying you a drink," said Gallina, 34.
"
"We are putting value back into the properties by not making them free, and we are putting value into the veteran," Beatty said.
Beatty and Gallina say their new mission is more than just providing veterans with accessible homes; it's about encouraging communities to get involved with those who served their country.
I've seen the uniforms hanging in the closets," Beatty said.
But when Purple Heart Homes built a wheelchair ramp in front of his home, it changed his life.
He says it's all because of Purple Heart Homes.
For Beatty and Gallina, their work is about giving all veterans the same level of respect.
Why would we do it at home?"
Check out the Purple Heart Homes website at purplehearthomesusa.org and see how to help.