As men's college basketball comes to a close with the last game April 6, fans are anxiously watching to see who will claim victory in this year's national championship game.
Over the years, college basketball has sparked great dedication among its fans, from those who camp out for three months for a ticket to those who attended games before they could read.
Visitors will find that Duke basketball fans don't shower their support only on game day.
At Duke University -- seeded No.
1 in the South this year.
It is also the college team of professional basketball legend Michael Jordan.
If visitors can't get one of the coveted tickets to watch the game in the Dean E. Smith Center, aka the Dean Dome, there is plenty to do in the quaint city of Chapel Hill.
The University of Kansas in Lawrence
In 1952, "Phog" led the men's basketball team to its first NCAA victory.
The museum, which opened about three years ago, houses artifacts and information about the history of KU athletics, including the men's basketball team.
When Kansas beat Memphis to clinch the national championship last year, more than 100,000 fans poured into the street, university officials say.
"And if you're a basketball fan, that's all the better."
Despite this, college basketball in Bloomington, Indiana, remains sacred, devout Hoosiers fans say, and they believe that the men's team will be back in full force over the next few years.
Officials at Bloomington Indiana Visitors & Convention Bureau say basketball game days flood local restaurants and bars with students and local fans.
"Basketball is a religion in this state," said Zach Osterman, the men's basketball columnist at the university's student newspaper, the Indiana Daily Student.
That means students and alumni are even more dedicated to the men's basketball team, they say.
"It's such a great feeling to know you can walk anywhere in the city when you have a Marquette shirt on a basketball day and people will talk to you about basketball," said Sarah Dembkowski, a sophomore at the university.
6-seeded Golden Eagles lost to the University of Missouri in the tournament last week, a trip to the Bradley Center, where the Marquette men's basketball team plays (and where the NBA's Milwaukee Bucks play) is well worth the visit.
Gonzaga University in Spokane, Washington
The Gonzaga Bulldogs men's basketball team is an obscure team that seems to emerge from thin air each March.
Fans in "the Kennel Club" at Gonzaga go wild for basketball despite the school's smaller size.
Before the opening, the basketball team was playing in a glorified high school gym, university officials said.
The town, tucked into eastern Washington, is excited to welcome visitors.