But it must also respect the rights of U.S. citizens and those aspiring to join them.
Requirements in Senate Bill 744 for mandatory worker IDs and electronic verification remove the right of citizens to take employment and "give" it back as a privilege only when proper proof is presented and the government agrees.
Any citizen or immigrant whose digital image in the Homeland Security databank did not match the one embedded in their government-issued ID would be without a job and benefits.
The digital ID requirements in S. 744 eliminate that fundamental right to take employment and transform it into a privilege.
As philosopher John Locke, whose phrase "consent of the governed" animates the Declaration of Independence, once said, everybody "has a property in his own person."
Moreover, S. 744 undermines constitutional federalism by resurrecting ID provisions that most states have rejected.
Not only does S. 744 mandate "E-Verify" as a national electronic verification system for employment for the 33 states that have not joined it (Illinois actually outlawed its use), the bill also revives the moribund "Real ID" requirement for sharing of driver's license photos among the states and federal government, which 25 states opposed by law or resolution.
If mandatory digital photos and biometric IDs are forced on religious believers, many are convinced that they will face eternal condemnation.
Instead of naturalization freeing legal immigrants from carrying mandatory "green cards," universal E-Verify would impose IDs on American citizens.
Even though the bill says it does not authorize a national ID, its provisions do.
Worker ID systems will burden individuals and businesses with large expenses.
A comprehensive worker ID system will cost taxpayers and businesses, big and small, billions for the time and "photo tool" equipment needed to implement such a system to E-Verify the entire labor force.
The existing E-Verify is infamous for database errors that kept tens of thousands of citizens out of work and in limbo.
Together, good public policy combinations can let people enter and leave by the "front door" and jointly reduce the pressures for overemphasis on border security and the excuses for invasive and unconstitutional ID and verification systems.
Protecting the constitutional right to employment of a diversity of citizens helps everyone who wants to contribute to prosperity and to become American by maintaining citizenship as the bedrock of freedoms.
And we do not want biometric worker IDs or digital "Big Brother" verification schemes that trample on the basic rights of American citizens and those working to join us.
The opinions expressed in this commentary are those of Richard Sobel.