(CNN) -- It was early evening when Lee Ferrero got in his car to make the trip home from a meeting for work.
I just zoned out."
A visit to the Mayo Clinic in Scottsdale, Arizona, showed Ferrero was in the beginning stages of Alzheimer's disease, a form of dementia.
Now 64, he doesn't want to sit home all the time, and still drives and walks around.
He hasn't had another wandering incident, but knows he might at some point as his disease progresses.
Kallmyer advises families that there's no way to keep an eye on someone 24-7, but that there are some steps they can take to decrease the chances their loved one will wander.
Lawrence Schonfeld, an Alzheimer's expert, has noticed sometimes families forget that wandering is a huge risk because they're so overwhelmed with other aspects of Alzheimer's disease.
"Families are worried their loved one will leave the stove on in the kitchen, or they're annoyed when their loved one asks the same question over and over again," he says.
If your loved one says, "It's time to go to work," she might truly be headed out the door in a few minutes.
"I want to go home" might mean he's about to go in search of his childhood home, and you have to stop him.
"If they say they want to go to work, tell them 'OK let's go see if we can find your shoes,'" Schonfeld suggests.
If someone is there with them you can block the doors.
You can also put a lock toward the bottom of the door; Kallmyer says people with dementia won't think to look for a lock in such an unusual place.
Sometimes people with dementia will go wandering off in search of the bathroom or a glass of water and get distracted and actually leave the house.
"Sometimes people wander out of boredom, or because no one's paying attention to them," Kallmyer says.
You can also enroll your loved one in an adult day care program so they'll have interesting activities.
Even if they're not tired, the social engagement of the walk might be enough to keep them from wandering in search of company.
Create a path through the rooms of your house as a place for your loved one to wander, or a circular trail through a fenced backyard, the Mayo Clinic advises.
You can even attach a GPS to your loved one and then go online to find him on a map; the GPS might be on a bracelet or in a shoe.
The Alzheimer's Association has an overview of electronic devices that can help keep track of Alzheimer's patients, and the association also has information about the ComfortZone and other safety products it sells.
Many families aren't sure they can safely keep their loved one with dementia at home.
Schonfeld says.
"Do they have electronic devices to keep track of people who wander?