In 2007, the Hong Kong couple enlisted Harvard-lecturer-turned-admissions-consultant Mark Zimny to steer their two sons through elite U.S. boarding schools into a top-ranked university-- preferably Harvard.
Admissions consultants say the Chow case is an anomaly, both in terms of the amount the couple paid and the assurances Zimny allegedly made.
"When people are looking at the U.S. education system, it's seen as one of the best in the world," said Susan Joan Mauriello, an American who moved to Hong Kong in 2005 and quickly identified admissions consulting as a business opportunity.
"Before as an admissions consultant (in Hong Kong), you could work part-time and do it out of Starbucks.
Affluent Asian families view elite U.S. education as a form of conspicuous consumption and are willing to "throw money at it," Zimny said, describing his clients as "the 1% of the 1%."
The U.S.-based Independent Education Consultants Association (IECA) denounced Zimny as a "con artist," describing the monthly $8,000 fees for the two Chow sons as approximating "what should be a single fee, over a multi-year period, to work comprehensively with a student."
"The thing I worry about consultants is they can do a lot of work in terms of writing essays and it's unethical," said Rachel Rubin, a lecturer at Emmanuel College in Boston who specializes in higher education admissions policy.
To gain an edge, some wealthy applicants offer donations to boarding schools and universities, consultants said.
While donations are "not an absolute requirement," Zimny told CNN, they are a "common practice" that can pivotally influence boarding school and university admissions.
While Struthers confirmed that Zimny made several gifts to the school, he said they were unrelated to the Chow sons, adding that "no donation or promise of donation was made to Loomis Chaffee by the Chows or Mr. Zimny on their behalf, as part of the admission process."
He said he had stopped working with the Chow sons before they applied to university.
Zimny said his services can also include brokering introduction meetings between potential donors from Asia and development officials at U.S. universities, adding that schools welcomed these introductions as a way of fielding multitudes of donation requests.
Harvard declined to comment on whether donations influence admissions decisions.