"It wasn't like a kaleidoscope -- there was no color, it was all black and white," Lutz Pfannenstiel tells CNN, recalling the moment 12 years ago when his life flashed before his eyes, the former goalkeeper suffering an injury which led the club's physio at Bradford Park Avenue to think the German was dead.
"There were black and white diamonds and it was very quiet," said Pfannenstiel, whose lungs collapsed after an opposition player's knee smashed into his chest, preventing him from breathing.
Looking back, he says he behaved "irresponsibly" and the incident proved a turning point in Pfannenstiel's career, in which he played for 25 clubs across the globe over two decades.
In South Africa, Pfannenstiel became a folk hero with Orlando Pirates in Johannesburg, his fame even persuading one would be gun toting assailant to apologize for inconveniencing the German as he visited the corner shop for a bottle of water.
At the time the German was enjoying life, modeling for Armani and presenting his football highlights show, but he was then found guilty of match fixing and sentenced to 101 days in prison.
"For breakfast, they don't say good morning, they punch you in the face.
Keen to distance himself from what he perceived was a superficial and materialistic way of life, Pfannenstiel came up with  the idea of 'Global United' -- a charity to raise awareness of climate change.
Now Pfannenstiel hopes to take his football friends, who play in games to raise money, to Antarctica and bring attention to the effects of climate change.
"I want to leave the scene as if nothing had ever happened," says Pfannenstiel.
Having grown up in the Bavarian forests of Germany, Pfannenstiel has always been passionate about the environment.
"Now it's not like that.
Pfannenstiel has already helped raise awareness of the effects of the climate change by spending a week living in an igloo -- a feat which was streamed online.
"If you go to the Maldives, you know that they will be gone in 10-15 years because they'll sink.
It's not just the environment which Pfannenstiel is passionate about -- he loves animals too.
"I saw this penguin and I got so curious and I just adopted him as a pet," laughs Pfannenstiel.
When not kidnapping penguins or looking to save the world, Pfannenstiel spends his time working for German football Bundesliga club 1899 Hoffenheim.
"I've had to fight for everything since leaving prison," he said.
I didn't have that much money -- all I had was a pair of flip flops, a pair of shorts, a T-shirt and a bag full of debts.