(CNN) -- Gore Vidal, the eclectic author who faithfully chronicled the major shifts and upheavals in the United States in books, essays and plays, has died.
Widely hailed as one of America's greatest men of letters, the aristocratic Vidal was a high-profile commentator on politics, including his bitter opposition to the war in Iraq and his belief that the United States had betrayed its humble roots to become an imperial power.
Vidal also appeared in a number of films, including the political satire, "Bob Roberts," where he played a U.S. senator.
The more they communicated, the more impressed he was by McVeigh, Vidal said.
So I certainly, wouldn't have changed my modus vivendi one bit," he said of the furor.
Vidal "was always a gadfly," Bram said.
Author Truman Capote once said he felt sad about Vidal, "very sad that he has to breathe every day."
"Well, I mean I won the debates, there was no question of that," Vidal recounted in a CNN interview in 2007.
He was born Eugene Luther Gore Vidal on October 3, 1925.
And when his mother, Nina, remarried, Vidal shared a stepfather with Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis.
From the congressional record, from American history, poetry," Vidal said.
Unlike his father, Vidal showed no interest in sports and took to writing at age 14, joined the Navy at 17 and published his first novel, the World War II-themed "Williwaw," while on night watch in port at 19.
As a result of the controversy, "He backed away from the subject for a while," said Bram, who teaches English at New York University.
"
Following his lucrative TV stint, Vidal returned to writing and produced three widely acclaimed novels that cemented his reputation as an internationally best-selling author: "Julian" (1964), about the Roman emperor who wanted to restore paganism; "Washington, D.C." (1967), the first of his fictional chronicles of American history; and "Myra Breckinridge" (1968), a satirical treatise on transsexualism.
"I would say that since 1945, the United States, which was absolutely the 'mandate of heaven,' as Confucius would say, had fallen upon us," he told CNN in 2007.
Vidal said in the CNN interview that he wanted to be cremated and then have his ashes placed at Rockcreek Cemetery in Washington.
"We share a plot, and I'll be there," Vidal said.
Please share with us in the comments below.