Giglio, Italy (CNN) -- Italian rescuers and divers continuing their perilous work Tuesday located a second "black box" and the remains of five people in the wreckage of the Costa Concordia cruise ship.
Francesco Schettino is under arrest and may face charges that include manslaughter, shipwreck and abandoning a ship when passengers were still on board, chief prosecutor Francesco Verusio said.
In a later conversation, an Italian coast guard official demands Schettino return to his ship, the transcripts show.
the port official said.
Before the discovery of the five bodies Tuesday, authorities had said 29 people were missing, including 14 Germans, six Italians, four French citizens, two Americans, and one each from Hungary, India and Peru.
A friend of two missing Americans, Gerald and Barbara Ann Heil of White Bear Lake, Minnesota, said their family is "holding up very well" despite the agonizing wait for word from Italy, where the retired couple had gone for "their trip of a lifetime" after raising four children and working in their community for years.
The ship had about 2,300 tons of fuel on board at the time of the wreck, said Costa Cruises chairman and chief executive Pier Luigi Foschi.
Italy's Coast Guard said it has located a second "black box," or data recorder, from the ship.
Information from the device, along with that from another that has already been recovered and is being analyzed by prosecutors, will provide authorities with "a complete picture of how the disaster unfolded," Macaroni said.
People were hysterical," Moore said.
One person who was scheduled to board the Concordia on Saturday said he was offered a refund, but will not get the refund for three months.
Human error can't be regulated, said an official with Cruise Lines International Association, which represents the industry.
"Nautilus is concerned about the rapid recent increases in the size of passenger ships, with the average tonnage doubling over the past decade," said Nautilus general secretary Mark Dickinson in a statement.
Maritime law attorney Richard Alsina said the agency has little teeth and is dealing with an industry that has a strong lobby.
CNN's Livia Borghese, Hada Messia, Dan Rivers, Mary Snow, Christopher Cottrell, Diana Magnay and Richard Allen Greene and journalist Barbie Nadeau contributed to this report.