With only 20,000 nerve cells -- compared with about 100 billion found in the human brain -- Aplysia are the perfect lab animals for brain researchers hoping to isolate a crucial connection.
Kandel won the 2000 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for his work with Aplysia -- or more specifically, for his work on the biological mechanisms of memory storage.
One is complex forms of memory, which require the hippocampus and (are called) explicit memory storage.
And the two involve different systems in the brain.
You've got to see how a memory is formed.
Rather than studying the most complex form of memory in a very complicated animal, we had to take the most simple form -- an implicit form of memory -- in a very simple animal.
And these synapses are plastic -- they can be modified by learning.
CNN: So would memory work the same in a human as it does in a snail?
Obviously human memory is much more complicated than memory of a snail.
But the remarkable thing that Darwin discovered is that evolution is very conservative.
And this is what one finds with the learning process.
And I didn't particularly enjoy the science courses; even in medical school, I enjoyed the clinical work much more than the basic science courses.
I remember having dinner with my wife before we were married and telling her, 'You know, I can see doing this for the rest of my life, but it's ridiculous.
Kandel: Well, I think it's a fascinating problem because it's so central to everything we do.
With Alzheimer's disease, you lose explicit memory, complicated memory, so he would have difficulty recognizing people.
And he did some beautiful paintings when he had fairly advanced Alzheimer's disease.
If you ask him afterward, 'What's it like to play the piano?'
The other reason memory is so important is there is a number of a diseases that affect memory storage, and we'd like to know how they work so we can try to remedy them.
It's Huntington's disease and Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's disease -- dreadful disorders that we want to be able to help people with.
CNN: In 2004, you said that we could have effective memory drugs in two years.
With Alzheimer's disease, I think the understanding is surprisingly good.
By the time they come to us with symptoms of Alzheimer's disease, they've had the disease for 10 years.
So the whole thrust in Alzheimer's disease -- or at least an important thrust -- is to try to get early diagnoses so we can treat people much earlier than we are now treating them.
...
There's much, much more to be studied, and much, much more to be learned.