Jerry Goldsmith was one of hundreds of people who turned out this week to apply for a casino job.
I think everyone gets angry," says Goldsmith, 60, recalling his New Year's Day firing.
Goldsmith was one of 750 people who showed up  Wednesday to apply for casino dealer jobs near Denver.
He says that, at first, he spent a lot of time on the Internet looking for work.
Goldsmith says he nailed the casino job interview and thinks he would make a great dealer.
You're adding an extra shift in every department of the casino," says Jef Bauer, who runs three casinos in Black Hawk, Colorado, for Golden Gaming: the Golden Mardi Gras, Golden Gates and Golden Gulch.
"We have just been through 12 months of declines in gaming revenues and head counts," he says, adding that he hopes the increased bet limits, new games and extended hours will bring the gamblers back to the tables.
The would-be croupiers filed in, filled out applications and were assigned a number.
Applicants who make the grade will attend a casino-run, part-time dealer school for three months, where they will learn the complicated games and qualify for a Colorado gaming license.
"I've never dealt cards before, but I love to play blackjack and I'm pretty good at it."
Like most of the other casino applicants, she never pictured herself dealing cards.
According to the American Gaming Association, some 360,000 people work in 467 commercial casinos across the country, accounting for $13.8 billion in wages including benefits and tips.
Alan Meister, an economist and the author of "Indian Gaming Industry Report," says there were 346,000 people directly employed by 423 Indian gaming casinos in 2007.
He says that when the industry was booming he was making a salary in the "low six figures," drove a new BMW and lived in a house in the tony Cherry Creek section of Denver.
Now all he needs is a job, and he thinks being a casino dealer might be a good fit.
"But you have to do what you have to do in this economy and make the adjustments to where the job you have pays the bills."