At the beginning of the year, 38 percent of employers said the economy would force them to make administrative cuts sometime during 2009, according to a survey by CareerBuilder.com.
Such perks and benefits being taken away make for a tough situation for employees.
"When perks and benefits are taken away, management often does this to allocate resources where they're needed, elsewhere.
Although it's understandable for employees to be upset, frustrated and discouraged when benefits or perks are taken away, Kevin Sheridan, founder and CEO of HR Solutions, which specializes in helping organizations to keep employees engaged, said that employees are less likely to be upset if management communicates with employees.
If leadership had simply asked employees which benefits were important to them, this situation may be avoided."
"It's a good time to remember that the perks were never the reason that you liked the job.
"This statistic is especially important because many organizations have cut benefits over the last six months, and it illustrates that the majority of employees have not thought of resigning as a result of adjusted benefits," Sheridan said.
Also, as soon as the economy picks up, many benefits programs will be re-evaluated; employees sticking around with these organizations will not remain without benefits forever."
"In this economy, it may be very hard to find another job, and there's no guarantee that one will have free coffee, either," Glen said.
"The longer you talk about it to fellow employees, the longer you will have bad feelings, cause others to have bad feelings and be less productive yourself, which is not what will help the company be able to restore what has been taken away," said Aubrey Daniels, author of "Oops!
Sheridan encourages employees to find motivation through career planning with supervisors, interacting with co-workers or being proud of where they work.
Nancy Irwin, a motivational speaker and author, said employees can take turns bringing in coffee, bagels or potluck lunches to help fill the void of things that have been cut.
Focus on the solution, not the problem
If you do a good job, you may be rewarded for your efforts when things improve," he said.
All rights reserved.