(CNN) -- The Syrian government has said it will let the United Nations enter the country and deliver humanitarian aid to people in need, a U.N. official said Tuesday.
Ging said the Syrian government has signed a memorandum that describes the planned humanitarian response for the approximately 1 million people who need humanitarian aid urgently.
"For more than 10 days now, the criminal regime forces have cut off basic food items from entering Houla area," said the statement from the opposition Houla Media Center.
To press for tough action against the Syrian regime, the United States is sending a delegation to Russia this week led by special adviser Frederic Hof, a senior Obama administration official said.
Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Mikhail Bogdanov said talks between Russia and the United States "continue at various levels," the state-run news agency RIA Novosti said.
If Russia is careful about its relations with Syria, then I believe it is mistaken to stand as an obstacle against the popular Syrian position.
But a U.S. official said Ford will keep working.
Turkey's ambassador and all members of the embassy -- diplomats and administrators -- are expelled, the Syrian Foreign Ministry said.
Despite the expulsions, Syria "stresses the importance of dialogue based on principles of equality and mutual respect between nations, and diplomacy is the necessary vehicle to connect with countries to resolve conflicts between countries, and pending issues," the Syrian Foreign Ministry said in a statement.
Residents of the Hiffa area "have issued a call for help to the U.N. observers after the regime's shelling in the area, and are warning of an impending massacre with the entry of Shabiha to the city," the Local Coordination Committees said.
Medical sources and activists reported at least 22 members of the Syrian security forces and government militia killed as well, the observatory said.
The head of the U.N. observer mission in Syria, Maj. Gen. Robert Mood, met in Damascus on Tuesday for more than an hour with Syrian Deputy Foreign Minister Faisal Miqdad, the United Nations said.
Many residents have fled their homes, and those that remain are mourning the loved ones they have lost," a U.N. statement said.