(CNN) -- Guatemalan President Alvaro Colom should leave office during the investigation into whether he was connected to three recent slayings, his 2007 presidential opponent said Thursday.
The crisis started Monday with the surfacing of a video in which Guatemalan attorney Rodrigo Rosenberg said Colom, the president's wife and a top aide would be responsible if something happened to the lawyer.
They were killed, Rosenberg said, because they had refused to participate in acts of corruption as the president wanted.
He promised a full investigation and said he would accept international help, asking the U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation to become involved.
Perez said Vice President Jose Rafael Espada could take over until the investigation is complete.
"It is evident that [Rosenberg's video statement] was written by someone who has been in on this plan to destabilize the government and for reasons that I don't know, because I don't know why Mr. Rosenberg mentions us in that video," Colom said.
"The president has not wanted to confront this and has given evasive answers," Perez said.
Larry Birns, director of the Council on Hemispheric Affairs, a Washington policy institute, agrees with that assessment.
Very damning," he said.
"I fear that this crisis will lead to violence and destabilization of the government," Carrera said from Guatemala City.
"The powers that be are trying to make it a social issue -- the wealthy against the poor," he said.
And he said he went to high school with Gustavo Alejos, the presidential aide Rosenberg mentioned in the video.
Let's not let this happen again and again and again,' " he said.
The investigation, he said, will be handled by an independent attorney general who does not report to the president.
Colom and Velasquez said the meeting had been planned days ahead of time.
A just investigation is necessary, he said.
Rosenberg said the same thing in the video, bemoaning the "narcos, assassins and thieves" who have taken over the country.
"Those thieves are sinking all of Guatemala," he said.
Instead, his funeral was held that day.