Jury selection begins Friday, as attorneys begin to whittle down a pool of more than 1,100 potential jurors to the small group that will decide whether Hernandez is guilty of murdering semipro football player Odin Lloyd.
Hernandez, 25, has pleaded not guilty.
In the months leading up to jury selection, Hernandez's defense attorneys, who insist Hernandez will be exonerated, have been trying to chip away at the prosecution's case.
At about 3:20 a.m. on June 17, 2013, prosecutors say, Lloyd was in a car driven by Hernandez with Wallace and Ortiz.
At 3:07 a.m., according to prosecutors, Lloyd texted his sister Shaquilla Thibou a question: "U saw who I'm with(?)"
Minutes later, witnesses heard shots fired at an industrial park about a mile from Hernandez's home, they told prosecutors.
Hernandez's texts to Lloyd: Jurors will, however, be able to see texts between Hernandez and Lloyd from earlier that night when the football player invited Lloyd to hang out.
The surveillance video: Prosecutors will be able to show Hernandez on his home surveillance video system walking toward his basement door holding what prosecutors say appears to be a gun.
Investigators say a vehicle that appears to match the description of a car rented by Hernandez is seen on security cameras driving through the industrial park, allegedly with Hernandez, Wallace, Ortiz, and Lloyd inside.
Prosecutors have said they plan to argue Lloyd's murder was a "joint venture."
They said the sneakers appear to match shoe prints found at the scene where Lloyd was fatally shot.
For example, if former Hernandez friend Alexander Bradley testifies, he won't be able to mention he's suing Hernandez for allegedly shooting him in the right eye a few months before Lloyd's death.
Nor will the jury be able to hear that Hernandez has been indicted for shooting to death two men in Boston after leaving a nightclub in 2012.
Prosecutors have permission from the judge to take jurors to see Hernandez's home, as well as the shooting site.
Garsh ruled that a trophy case and Patriots jersey inside the home will remain in view.
With Hernandez and his family watching, as well as the family and friends of victim Odin Lloyd, we're about to find out.