If a polar bear no longer has ice to stand on and must have his "bear kibble" (that's a real term; more on it soon) airlifted to the Arctic by helicopter, is he still a polar bear?
Among Derocher's scenarios is using helicopters to airdrop food on polar bears as their icy habitat continues to melt -- at a cost of $32,000 per day for the "most accessible" bears.
Then it won't really be a polar bear anymore," Derocher said on the phone.
His other ideas: Moving the bears northward, where the ice is less likely to melt; euthanizing some of the bears, which he writes "may be the most humane option for individual bears in very poor condition that are unlikely to survive"; and moving some of the polar bears to zoos.
He doesn't want to have to feed the polar bears, much less euthanize them.
Polar bears live and hunt from sea ice.
And if the bears can't catch seals, they can't survive.
"It's ridiculous, human beings feeding polar bears.
"I wouldn't say I'm 'against' it, just skeptical about how much good it will do to them," one commenter wrote on my Google+ page when I asked about the subject.
It's easy to have a whiplash reaction: Don't feed the polar bears.
While some of its effects are inevitable (some polar bear habitat absolutely will be lost, Derocher said), there are longer-term solutions that could help save some of the polar-bear-ness of the polar bear.
Some 35,000 people gathered in Washington last weekend to make similar points.
Researchers from the U.S. Geological Survey have estimated that two-thirds of polar bears will be gone by 2050.
And such programs do exist for other species, Derocher said, including California condors, black bears in Washington state and brown bears in Eastern Europe.
He said he's not a sentimental person -- he doesn't get attached to an individual polar bear the way he does to his golden retriever.
But when you're in the Arctic and you see how much the bears are struggling, it's hard not to care about them as a group -- to want to do something to preserve their wild power.
Editor's note: Join John Sutter for a live video chat about how to save the polar bears on Spreecast on Thursday at 1:30 p.m.
ET.