It's going to be worth it; Beck knows precisely where he needs to be to get the perfect picture when the overwhelming gold medal favorite Shaun White performs.
He knows where to be to get the shot he wants because Beck and his assistant, Kohjiro "Kojo" Kinno have been photographing White for months, learning his every move and tendency.
For instance, Beck knows the best time to shoot a close-up of White is during his first practice run because the snowboarder doesn't go as high then.
We want to get their faces if we can."
Kinno has been there for him for nearly seven years, handing him the right equipment, fixing things when they go wonky, running cards back to the work area and often being the voice of reason.
It's almost like a pitcher without his catcher, though the understated Kinno often is the one who shakes Beck off.
There's often disagreement, Kinno says, but they always come to an understanding.
Fine has a request for Beck to get White at a certain angle.
Beck and Kinno agree; it's not a clean shot from where Beck will be, but they can try and see what Fine says.
"I don't suggest anything to those guys," Beck said.
He'll try to nail it the best he can by using a different lens than others near him (maybe a 35 mm while lying down in the snow) and also through the use of a camera on a 12-foot stick he'll hold up.
Beck says when he has used a remote-fired camera, he's able to get other snowboarders in the frame perfectly, but White soars so high that much of the time he's at the top of the frame, if he's even in the picture.
Celebration photos always play well, but only the photographers at the bottom will have White right in front of them.
Beck halfway wishes he could shoot those photos instead of Martin.
Back in the work area, Beck says not everything went well.
At least 75 percent of photography is problem solving, he said.
Beck says that during one practice run a TV cameraman ran in front of him, snapping pictures on his phone.
There is a picture, looking up the pipe of White, cast against a clear night sky, soaring through the air, on his way to a gold medal.