If you eat in your car you may want to consider fabric or leather protections.
You still need to decide whether to buy any of those "extras" that your salesperson will always suggest.
We wanted to know which of these new car extras were worth it and which ones a consumer can do without.
"I think that most paint jobs on cars are pretty good these days, so in most cases you probably don't need that anymore," said Bennett, who offered one caveat.
suggests Bennett.
"Also, look at exclusions in the plan," advises Bennett.
If you want to save some cash, one option would be to forego the protectant and just make sure you clean your seats regularly with a good upholstery cleaner or leather cleaner.
It's also a good idea , to use a leather conditioner regularly on leather seats to restore moisture and to maintain its appearance.
"I don't think this is necessary in most cases," opines Bennett.
Using a car alarm is one way to protect your vehicle.
This automatically activates the LoJack System in the vehicle -- emitting an inaudible signal.
If you live in a high-crime area, a system like this could provide you with peace of mind," advises Bennett.
One caveat: Some car owners may not want their car back after it has been stolen, especially if it has been seriously vandalized, or if it has been driven so hard that it causes some mechanical problems.
"So if you plan on selling the car after three or five years, it probably doesn't make sense to buy the extended warranty."
"They usually have three levels of warranties: A basic extended warranty will just cover the powertrain, for example; while a better one will cover the powertrain plus some other components that are listed -- or an 'exclusionary' extended warranty may say it covers everything except those items that are listed.
Bennett gives an example of one manufacturers warranty.
"That's a pretty good warranty, so if you plan on only keeping your vehicle for five years or less, the extended warranty is probably money you don't need to spend."