But the team still has a few games to go to top the 1971-1972 Los Angeles Lakers' run of 33 straight consecutive victories.
When it comes to impressive winning streaks, Khan is king by virtue of his taking 555 straight matches between 1981 and 1986.
The heat is on, and on, and on
Take summer 2001, when the high temperature met or exceeded 100 degrees for 154 consecutive days, according to the Death Valley National Park website.
If the Heat cruise past the Lakers, they'll have made NBA history.
That mark stood until late 2010, when the University of Connecticut's women's hoops program under coach Geno Auriemma notched 90 straight wins.
To put it in perspective for Miami, they'd need to roughly triple their amount of victories to top that.
So, who was the biggest of them all, when it came to consecutive weeks as the No.
The song held the Hot 100's top spot for 16 weeks, beating out Whitney Houston's "I Will Always Love You" and Boyz II Men's "I'll Make Love To You" by two weeks.
Still, it's one that falls well short of Billboard's most consecutive weeks for a chart-topping album.
For the past few years, a recession has gripped much of the world.
According to the Australian Treasurer Wayne Swan, Australia has notched 21 straight years of annual economic growth.
So there's no telling if Australia will turn things upside down even more, by hurdling or skirting economic obstacles to grow for another 21 years straight.
Still, the measure that many most affiliate Lucci with is how many times she lost.
It was a win for her, but also the moment she lost hold of one of her biggest claims to fame.
But what some outside the South may not realize is that, when McCain ran, Democrats still had power in Montgomery -- just as, seemingly, they always had.
But that started to change, especially in national politics, in the 1970s and 1980s.
American juggernaut
No.
The streak ended in 2012, when NBC's "Sunday Night Football" took Nielsen's top spot.
Then again, sometimes that happens when you're hundreds of years old.
But while many have gone out of print, some publications are still going -- under the same name, and just as ready to grab and read as they were centuries ago.
Mexico's party of record -- for 71 years
Despite or, perhaps, because of criticisms that it was authoritarian and corrupt, the party won 12 consecutive national elections, which occurred roughly every six years.
But its 12-election, 71-year winning streak ended in 2000, when the right-wing National Action Party broke through and Vicente Fox became Mexico's president.
In American sports lore, that number speaks for itself.
But it's the streak, it seems, that may be his most enduring legacy.
Every season, it seems, a player makes a run at the 56-game hitting streak.