Obama and many Democrats say House Republicans are to blame for rejecting Senate-passed immigration reform last year without coming up with their own plan.
Beyond the bickering, both sides have valid points, immigration policy and law experts say.
Where previously Mexican children made up the bulk of them, a surge more recently from Guatemala, Honduras and El Salvador has been seen.
An administration program that defers the deportation of children brought in illegally by their parents or guardians has also had unintended consequences, immigration policy and law experts say.
Inaction by the House on immigration reform has also exacerbated the problem, experts say.
Last year, federal agencies noticed an uptick in minors crossing the border — particularly in the Rio Grande Valley, according to a report from U.S. Customs and Border Patrol.
The same agencies have also realized those "children present unique operational challenges" for Border Patrol and Health and Human Services.
The administration has asked Congress to give the Border Patrol more leeway in deportation decisions but doing so is murky, immigration advocates say, since it involves a young and vulnerable population.
Obama is vowing to act on his own and use his executive authority to sidestep the House, changes some proponents say could help address the problem.
Though now, the administration plans to spend roughly $100 million in aid to Guatemala, Honduras and El Salvador to help the immigrant children get back home and stay there.
Perhaps, immigration law and policy experts say.
Obama likes to blame the House for not passing a Senate immigration bill that also included a path to citizenship for an estimated 8 million of the more than 11 million undocumented workers in the country.
However, White House officials say he has no plans to visit the border now.
"The President is very aware of the situation that exists on the southwest border," Earnest said, noting that other officials have traveled there and what they've seen "is troubling."