Since his death a year ago at age 84, Jimmy Savile, the popular TV host, disc jockey and charity fundraiser has been knocked off his perch as a national treasure, accused of being a predatory pedophile who used his fame and position to abuse youngsters, sometimes on BBC premises.
He mixed with British high society, and his death was greeted with sadness by many, including Prince Charles and his wife, the Duchess of Cornwall.
In the 1950s he took up wrestling and cycling, and he appeared regularly on British television running in marathons for charity even into his 70s.
So from start to finish I got a good hiding.
Cycling Weekly reported last year that he also had been a semi-professional cyclist and competed as Oscar 'The Duke' Savile in the 1951 Tour of Britain, and supported cycling charities most of his life.
He joined the independent station Radio Luxembourg as a DJ in 1958, but his big break came in 1964 when the BBC approached Savile to be the first host of "Top of the Pops" -- a show that became a huge hit for the BBC.
Generations of Britons also remember him for a string of public information films including a road safety promotion that encouraged motorists to use their seat belts -- a campaign that started before wearing belts became compulsory in the UK.
Savile was well-known for raising money through charity runs but also worked as a volunteer hospital porter and had a close association with the Stoke Mandeville Hospital spinal injuries unit.
Stoke Mandeville's Jimmy's Café, named after the TV personality, has now been changed since the sex abuse scandal surfaced and following specific allegations widely reported in the British press that one of his alleged victims Caroline Moore, now 53, was sexually assaulted by Savile in a Stoke Mandeville corridor in 1971, when she was a 13-year-old patient.
Although he was perceived as an odd and eccentric character, the British public has been shocked by the allegations.
But when Jimmy Savile died, fellow BBC disc jockey Tony Blackburn hinted that he was an isolated figure, telling the BBC: "He was just a complete one-off.
In the same program he also revealed that he only took a single pair of underpants with him when he went away and washed them in the sink every night.