Cairo (CNN) -- For a second day, Egyptian President Mohamed Morsy's home was not spared from the wrath of protesters who remain unconvinced of his defense of recent controversial decisions.
In remarks Thursday night -- his latest since the bloodiest stretch in two weeks of political unrest -- Morsy refused to back off the controversial edict he issued or his nation's upcoming constitutional referendum, saying he respects peaceful opposition to his decisions but won't stand for violence.
The president has agreed to delay the vote for expatriates until Wednesday, said chief of staff Refaa El-Tahtawy.
"(They) will not escape punishment," the president said in a televised speech.
Leave!
The National Salvation Front, an umbrella group of opposition organizations, called for large-scale demonstrations against a government it says has "lost legitimacy," said the group, as reported by the semiofficial al-Ahram newspaper.
Adel Saeed, a spokesman for Egypt's newly appointed general prosecutor, said Friday morning that Hamdeen Sabahi, Mohamed ElBaradei and Amr Moussa are being investigated for allegedly "conspiring to topple" the government.
He added that "only then will the opposition engage in dialogue."
A November 22 edict by Morsy, in which he made his decisions immune to judicial oversight until a new constitution is voted upon, set off the latest wave of political unrest.
If people vote it down, the president said Thursday night that he'd form a new assembly to draft another constitution.
Yet opposition activists haven't shown any indication that they trust Morsy on that or other counts.
Beyond the popular unrest, Morsy's inner circle was shaken when Rafik Habib, the deputy head of the Freedom and Justice Party, resigned Thursday, party spokesman Ahmed Sobe said.
The group said it would call for Morsy's ouster if the administration failed to protect protesters and "fulfill the aspirations of the January 25 revolution," the newspaper said.
CNN's Saad Abedine, Michael Pearson, Karen Smith, Amir Ahmed, and journalist Mohamed Fadel Fahmy also contributed to this report.