New York (CNN) -- Former pharmaceutical executive Gigi Jordan at first appeared calm as she described for a New York jury the last time she saw her son alive, those now-fuzzy final moments before she gave the 8-year-old autistic boy a lethal drug concoction.
We were saying goodbye to each other," Jordan told the Manhattan jury on Thursday during her second-degree murder trial.
"At some point, I put the pills together," she recalled.
"I gave him more Xanax, but the Ambien is the one I gave him the most of.
One ex-husband had allegedly threatened to kill her, a crime that would have left Jude with her other ex, his biological father, who she believed had sexually abused the boy.
On the stand Thursday, Jordan, a former nurse who made millions in a home heath care company, portrayed her actions as a sort of mercy killing.
She said she checked into the luxury Peninsula Hotel in Manhattan.
"Numb," she responded.
Jude and Jordan spent about six hours in the room before she gave him the pills.
"Jude was covered with a blanket," she said.
I couldn't tell but I assume he had passed."
Jude!
I titled his head back, grabbed his nose, gave him two breaths, then gave him 15 compressions.
On Wednesday, Jordan, fighting back tears, testified that she knowingly gave herself and Jude enough drugs to kill them both.
Asked about a history of suicide in her family, Jordan said an aunt killed herself when Jordan was 12 and her mother tried three times.
She testified that one night Jude started screaming, according to Jordan: " 'Dad bad.
Jordan testified that she held her son as Jude gestured at his crotch.
He also kept saying dad, and it was clear he was talking about his dad," she told the jury.
At an autopsy, four of the painkillers and anti-inflammatories used to kill Jude were recovered undigested from his stomach, prosecutors said.
"He didn't die fast.
Brenner said Jordan, believing she was ultimately protecting her son, brought the drugs to the hotel room with the intention of killing them both, but she survived the suicide attempt.
On the stand, Jordan said she planned on giving the money to charity before taking her life.
Her first husband filed a lawsuit in August 2013, claiming Jordan defamed him in interviews she gave the media in an effort to advance her defense.
Brenner said Jordan told a therapist and local authorities about the alleged abuse but no action was taken.