(CNN) -- These are the days of uncertainty.
"Did Obama just throw the entire election away?"
"We're sort of hardwired to predict what is going to happen to protect ourselves," he says.
"The more I can predict, the smarter I am and the better I look to others."
Compare that with weather forecasters, Silver says in an interview.
"They're being honest about how much they know and how much they don't know," he says.
An Irish mathematician said speedy trains were impractical because they'd cause breathing deprivation.
And then there's the founder of the onetime technology behemoth Digital Equipment Corp., who said in 1977, "There's no reason a person would want a computer in their home."
In 1936, the prestigious Literary Digest -- which ran what was then considered the gold standard of presidential polls -- proclaimed that Republican Alf Landon would beat President Franklin D. Roosevelt.
Cindy Frewen Wuellner, an architect and chairwoman of the Association of Professional Futurists, says the key to good forecasting is knowing what you don't know and doing your research.
"As a futurist, you find the uncertainty and kind of wallow in it," she says.
People (like, perhaps, sports talking heads or Washington pundits) often believe predictions are "a single scenario," she adds.
Which is one of the issues in interpreting polls.
It doesn't help, says Emory University political scientist and polling expert Alan Abramowitz, that there are more polls than ever.
Moreover, as technology has changed, so have polling methods.
In his book "When the People Speak," James Fishkin, a Stanford political scientist, observed that George Gallup believed polling solved a host of civic ills.
Instead, many people have used the snapshot statistics as a club with which to pound their opponents -- or they deny their usefulness entirely.
More recently, some Republicans have claimed that the polls themselves are skewed.
Sometimes, says futurist Frewen Wuellner, you just have to accept that you don't know the future until it occurs.
"Anybody who says they know for sure -- they're lying," she says.
There's always something that can happen.