It's mid-morning in Brazil and Melissa, her husband Alex and their four-year-old daughter are also glued to the TV to watch their hero in the season-ending Abu Dhabi Grand Prix.
"We met up with fans from all over; we had a guy from the UK and one guy even took a bus from Boston just to watch the race.
When Hamilton won in Abu Dhabi -- in easier circumstances than expected thanks to an engine problem for rival Nico Rosberg -- and sealed the 2014 championship he was quick to thank his fans in the post-race media conference.
Racing in a global championship has helped Hamilton gain fame across international borders.
"Lewis has over three million Facebook fans -- with a third of those coming from the UK -- and he has 2.6 million Twitter followers," explained Jon Stainer, managing director of leading sports and entertainment market research company Repucom.
Compared to other F1 drivers, Lewis is also right up there in most of the sport's key markets in terms of celebrity awareness.
"We saw that Lewis' fans were talking to one another and so we came up with the protocol #TeamLH," explains Roope.
The video messages was then edited into four films, which were broadcast daily on Hamilton's social platforms over the race weekend.
Here it is.
Hamilton himself explained the concept, and the emotional response it generated within him, after the race.
"It was important to us personally," Thomas said.
Thomas, who is originally from Guyana in South America, has also been galvanizing global support for Hamilton through social media for the last five years.
Hamilton's mass appeal is not just because he's an F1 driver and now a double world champion.
"There's a crossover that appeals to many, many backgrounds," said Thomas.
This hip-hop style and the fact that he spends a lot of time in the U.S. make him one of the few drivers who actually appeals to Americans."
Hamilton has also always worn his heart on his sleeve against a backdrop of fierce racing rivalry -- usually with his teammates --- and an on-off romance with Scherzinger.
Many of Hamilton's fans -- though not all -- warm to these moments of human frailty as much as his derring-do on the racetrack, and draw inspiration from both.
Melissa races go karts in Brazil and, although she credits her husband Alex for his practical support, she also takes heart from Hamilton.
Melissa has met Hamilton at many Brazilian Grands Prix.
Thomas, like Melissa, has met Hamilton "tonnes of times" in and around grand prix weekends.
"The first person we invited verbally to our wedding was Lewis," Thomas explained.
Being a global personality offers the ability to change people's lives even in a small way but for Hamilton, the relationship he has with his fans appears to be mutualistic.
"Lewis is genuinely indebted to his fans," said Roope.
Find out in Part II published on Thursday.