Tunis, Tunisia (CNN) -- Basma Khalfaoui was helping her daughters prepare for school the morning she heard the gunshots.
After all, it wouldn't be the first time Basma's husband, attorney and opposition leader Chokri Belaid, had been assaulted in broad daylight.
As the most visible leader of Tunisia's Popular Front -- a coalition of a dozen leftist political parties formed last October -- Belaid had been tasked with countering the rise of the Islamist-led Nahda party, which swept into power following the revolution that toppled longtime President Zine el Abidine Ben Ali in January 2011.
And as a result, he and his family were often the target of death threats, harassment, and on occasion, violence at the hands of his political opponents.
But as Basma approached her husband slumped in his car, she discovered the worst.
It was locked but all the windows were broken.
As he got into his car, a gunman approached and fired four shots which struck Belaid in the head and chest, then fled by motorcycle with the help of an accomplice driver.
Not long after the shooting, Chokri Belaid was pronounced dead at a nearby clinic.
The assassination, the first time since Tunisia's independence in 1956 that a politician had been the target inside the country, set off a wave of political setbacks which caused a security vacuum, creating a vicious cycle of instability that has come to characterize, and still plagues, Arab Spring nations in their post-dictator transitions.
Building on an already growing dissent against the Islamist Nahda party, the opposition immediately took to the streets following Belaid's death.
Just 13 days after the Belaid assassination, Jebali resigned as prime minister.
Leftist supporters clearly lacking the charismatic charm and leadership that died with Chokri, rallied behind Basma who was adored for her strength and determination immediately following her loss.
The whole thing has changed the destiny I have chosen, and yet I feel I am in the middle of the way," Basma says as she clutches tissues with one hand and constantly fiddles with a charm on her necklace bearing the image of her late husband with the other.
My concern is my daughters, but now I feel the amount of responsibility towards the people of Tunisia.
Nahda party wants to spread fear and I want to stop that feeling," Basma says.
Later that week, Basma and thousands of supporters donning Chokri Belaid masks and carrying posters bearing Chokri's trademark mustache and mole, an image which has come to represent the revival of revolutionary fervor in Tunisia, gathered at her husband's graveside.
Rally leaders then marched to Mohammad Bouazizi Square, named in honor of the street vendor who lit himself on fire which triggered Tunisia's revolution.
The day ended without incident, a stark contrast from the funeral procession for Belaid that just a few weeks earlier had ended in violent clashes between supporters of the leftist martyr and those of the ruling Nahda party.
"I still feel optimistic as he was before he died.