Washington (CNN) -- Over the next few days, the drama of a potential government shutdown will collide with the promise of a new health insurance system known as Obamacare.
Second, the U.S. government might "shut down" if lawmakers can't agree to pass a funding bill that has attached to it a provision to defund Obamacare.
Does a government shutdown shut down Obamacare?
Plus, the law would still be in effect, so its many new requirements -- everything from forcing insurance companies to cover anyone who wants insurance to forcing everyday Americans to carry health insurance or pay a fine -- would still be in effect, too.
A.
Do you get health insurance from your employer?
A lot of people think that because of Obamacare, fewer companies will offer health insurance, particularly to low-paid workers and retirees.
However, if you get health insurance at work, you could probably drop that coverage and buy health insurance on the Obamacare exchanges.
Do you get health insurance from the government?
Obamacare doesn't really affect you.
These are privately administered insurance plans that provide Medicare services to seniors.
If you get your insurance from one of the 50 state-run Medicaid programs, Obamacare should not affect you.
Do you have an individual health insurance plan?
These include new rules for how much profit companies can take for plans, new rules for coverage of women's services, new rules for how much more insurance companies can charge for women than men, and a lot more.
Check out your new state health insurance exchange or the one the federal government set up in your state if your state government refused to do so.
Why?
Do you have no health insurance?
How much is Obamacare going to cost me?
You don't have employer-sponsored health insurance and you do want coverage.
How are you supposed to afford a new health insurance plan?
Is Obamacare health insurance government insurance?
No.
On the one hand, the government is making people either carry insurance or pay a fine, on the other hand the government is making insurance companies provide insurance to anyone who wants it and they're controlling how much the insurance companies can charge.
You don't really want health insurance.
So if you're single and you make $50,000, you'd have to pay a $400 fine for not having health insurance.
Or you can look at it as horrible government overreach.