Four -- Colorado, Illinois, Missouri and Iowa -- have confirmed cases of Enterovirus D68, also known as EV-D68.
Dr. Christine Nyquist, medical director of infection control at Children's Hospital Colorado, said the hospital sent around 25 samples to the CDC from patients with respiratory illness.
The hospital has seen a 12% to 15% increase in emergency room visits and admissions this month compared with the same time frame last year, she said.
The season often hits its peak in September.
"It's one that we don't know as much about as we would like," Schuchat said.
EV-D68 was seen last year in the United States and this year in various parts of the world.
The virus has sent more than 30 children a day to a Kansas City, Missouri, hospital, where about 15% of the youngsters were placed in intensive care, officials said.
It's big," she said.
Our students start back around August 17, and I think it blew up at that point," Jackson said.
Vaccines for EV-D68 aren't currently available, and there is no specific treatment for infections, the Missouri agency said.
Some cases of the virus might contribute to death, but none of the Missouri cases resulted in death, and no data are available for overall morbidity and mortality from the virus in the United States, the agency said.
Sometimes they can be accompanied by fever or wheezing.
Jackson said physicians in other Midwest states reported cases with similar symptoms.
More than 900 children have gone to Children's Hospital Colorado emergency and urgent care locations since August 18 for treatment of severe respiratory illnesses, including enterovirus and viral infections, hospital spokeswoman Melissa Vizcarra said.
And Rocky Mountain Hospital for Children had five children in intensive care and 20 more in the pediatric unit, KUSA said last week.
His mother, Jennifer, called 911 when her son's breathing became shallow, and her son was airlifted to the Denver hospital, she told KUSA.
He was laying on the couch.
The hospital's Dr. Robert Merrick believes that the same virus that hit Kansas City is causing the rash of illnesses seen at the Quincy and Hannibal hospitals, which both imposed restrictions this week on children visiting patients, the affiliate said.
Like other enteroviruses, EV-D68 appears to spread through close contact with infected people, the agency said.
Clusters of the virus have struck Asia, Europe and the United States from 2008 to 2010, and the infection caused relatively mild to severe illness, with some intensive care and mechanical ventilation, the health agency said.