These are alarming examples, federal investigators say, that show police in Cleveland have been using unnecessary and unreasonable force at a "significant rate," employing "dangerous tactics" that put the community at risk.
Officers also have used excessive force on those "who are mentally ill or in crisis," the Justice Department said.
The Justice Department's report said it now appears that what they heard was the car backfiring.
After a 25-minute chase that reached speeds of more than 100 mph and ended in a school parking lot, 13 officers fired 137 rounds hitting Russell and Williams more than 20 times each, the report said.
Many officers were there, but none identified any fellow officers who had exacted excessive force on the suspect, and no officer was disciplined, the Justice Department said.
"Discipline is so rare that no more than 51 officers out of a sworn force of 1,500 were disciplined in any fashion in connection with a use of force incident over a three-and-a half-year period," the report said.
Mark had committed no crime, was strapped down and was in the midst of a medical crisis," the Justice Department report says.
Indeed, there is no indication that Mark could carry out his threat against the officers, particularly when he was strapped to the gurney."
It's one illustration, the Justice Department's report says, that "officer training instills in officers an 'us-against-them' mentality."
The incident sparked even more outrage amid high tensions over Michael Brown's shooting death in Missouri and similar situations that have put police use of force under a microscope.
"Deeply troubling to us was that some of the specially trained investigators who are charged with conducting unbiased reviews of officers' use of deadly force admitted to us that they conduct their investigations with the goal of casting the accused officer in the most positive light possible," the Justice Department's report said.
Williams told reporters his officers are committed to improving the department.
"We will work to make this police department better," he said.