"Egypt has room for everybody, and we are keen to save every drop of Egyptian blood," Gen. Abdel Fattah al-Sisi, the country's defense minister, said after days of clashes between pro-Morsy demonstrators and security forces that left hundreds dead.
And at least three dozen jailed members of the Muslim Brotherhood, the long-supressed Islamist movement that brought Morsy to power, were killed during what the Interior Ministry said was an attempted breakout.
An earlier report by the state-run news agency EGYNews said a group of armed men attempted to free the prisoners.
"The Egyptian people are free to choose whoever to govern them, while the armed forces will remain the safeguard of the will of the people and of their choice," he said.
Morsy's supporters say the military-backed interim government instigated the violence that killed more than 700 in the past week, starting with a dawn raid at two pro-Morsy protest camps last week that left more than 500 dead.
But Muslim Brotherhood spokesman Mahmoud Ghazlan said al-Sisi's comments "are a clear proof that the end of the coup is near," Ghazlan said.
But it said demonstrations took place around the country, including in Alexandria, on the Mediterranean coast, and in Giza, outside Cairo.
On Saturday, Egyptian security forces arrested more than 350 people at a mosque where throngs of Morsy supporters were hiding, including a handful from outside Egypt -- three Irish citizens, one Turkish and one Syrian, the Egyptian Interior Ministry said.
The new government urged the global community to listen to its side Sunday, accusing international media of being sympathetic to Morsy and the Muslim Brotherhood.
In a statement also released Sunday, the interim government said it would set up a National Council for Human Rights and document "all the events that took place during the crisis."
Fahmy also said he greatly appreciated the foreign aid that Egypt gets.
But it should not be targeted," Fahmy said.
U.S. law bars support of a government that has taken power by extraconstitutional means, but the administration has said it won't make a formal determination as to whether Morsy's ouster was a coup.
Saudi Arabia has pledged $5 billion in grants and loans, while the United Arab Emirates has said it would give $1 billion to Egypt and lend it an additional $2 billion as an interest-free central bank deposit.
Members of the European Union announced Sunday that the body will "urgently review in the coming days its relations with Egypt and adopt measures" aimed at ending violence, resuming political dialogue and returning to a democratic process.
CNN's Saad Abedine, Schams Elwazer, Ali Younes, Hamdi Alkhshali, Holly Yan, Ian Lee and Joseph Netto contributed to this report.