Anders Behring Breivik is accused of killing 76 people in the Friday attacks, most of them at a summer camp run by Norway's ruling Labour Party on Utoya.
The attorney, Geir Lippestad, said Breivik was surprised that his plan "succeeded -- succeeded in his mind."
Lippestad said Breivik didn't expect to reach Utoya, where he is accused of shooting 68 people dead.
Police said they would post an update at 6 p.m. every day until all the victims have been identified.
Breivik accused the Labour Party of "treason" for promoting multiculturalism, Heger said.
Breivik is cooperating with police inquiries, "but he won't talk about the other cells," he said.
Other countries are involved in the Norwegian investigation into last week's attacks, police said in response to a question about Breivik's claim to have been in contact with terror cells abroad.
Wilders said he was not "responsible for a lone idiot who twisted the freedom-loving anti-Islamization ideals" of his party.
"In my darkest moments, I think that rather than killing all those people, he should have taken his own life," Jens Breivik said in an interview with Norway's TV2.
He must be," the father said in response to a reporter's question about whether he thought his son was mentally ill.
I wish I could do something for them, but here I am, powerless to do anything," he said.
"No.
The suspect's father was one of many people searching for answers Tuesday after the mass killings that terrorized Norway last week.
That sorrow will intensify when police release the identities of all those killed, he said.
Breivik hates democracy and all who believe in it, his lawyer said Tuesday.
Breivik is now "very tired" because of his circumstances, he said, but he was not injured when he was taken into police custody.
I had commented on something he said.
...
CNN has not independently confirmed that Breivik is the author of the manifesto, which bears his name and says it is intended to be circulated among sympathizers.
The judge said he ordered Breivik held in isolation for the next four weeks to ensure he has no opportunity to tamper with evidence, Heger said.
He described the organization as an armed Christian order, fighting to rid the West of Islamic suppression, the newspaper said.