"This national unity is the only way to get Egypt out of this difficult crisis," Morsi said in a nationally televised speech.
"I must salute them because they have a role in the future" of Egypt, Morsi said.
That worked out to just under 52% of the vote for Morsi, while Shafik got just over 48%, officials said.
Are you there?
Manal Koshkani told CNN from a Cairo hotel that she and others "fear" the direction the Islamist party, the Muslim Brotherhood, could take Egypt.
Yet Morsi, who resigned from the Muslim Brotherhood and its Freedom and Justice Party shortly after the results were announced in an apparent effort to send a message that he will represent all Egyptians, said late Sunday that he is "in charge" thanks to the vote, while stressing he must answer to the people.
Morsi, an American-educated engineer, "represents the older, more conservative wing of the Brotherhood and openly endorses a strict Islamic vision," said Isobel Coleman of the Council on Foreign Relations -- a view Morsi seemed to try to rebut in his speech Sunday.
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, in a statement Sunday, said, "Israel appreciates the democratic process in Egypt and respects the results of the presidential elections.
And well before the official announcement, the two candidates both used social media to declare victory -- a claim they repeated, once again, early Sunday.
Even then, the head of the Supreme Presidential Election Commission kept people waiting -- after beginning 45 minutes later than expected, he took 45 minutes before finally announcing Morsi the victor.
Earlier, the White House issued a statement calling on Morsi "to take steps at this historic time to advance national unity by reaching out to all parties and constituencies," including respecting the rights of women and religious minorities such as Coptic Christians.
And even after Morsi's win, the political situation remains very much unsettled amid lingering questions about whether the military will loosen its grip on power.
Once sworn in as president, Morsi can declare war but only with "the approval" of the Supreme Council.
The revolution continues."