(CNN) -- Child beauty pageants are a lot like crime coverage on local news.
People complain that child beauty pageants exploit young girls -- some as young as 3 or 4 who are donning makeup, high heels and fake tans -- and yet, the ratings for reality television shows such as TLC's "Toddlers & Tiaras" are sky high.
The Senate in France voted to ban child beauty pageants for kids under the age of 16 and now the measure goes to the country's lower house for debate and a vote.
The pageants are sexualizing our young girls, said lawmakers in France, and judging by the response to our request for comment on CNN's Facebook page, many people in the United States agree.
"These are children for heaven's sake, not adults.
That's what a stripper does."
"Every time I think about child beauty pageants, my heart sinks at the thought of all the pedophiles watching them.
And now, as "Miss Heartland Junior Teen," she speaks to young girls across the country about her experiences with bullying, something she encountered when girls were jealous of her success on the pageant circuit.
She said just because some pageant systems "push it too far" (hers, she said, does not allow "fake hair, fake tans, fake teeth or a lot of makeup"), they most definitely should not be outlawed.
Wynn Westmoreland of Atlanta appeared in school pageants beginning in the sixth grade and competed in the University of Georgia pageant, which is part of the Miss America program.
"I do not like it when children who are not able to make choices on their own are forced to be in pageants and that is when I see the over-glamourization of young girls," said Westmoreland, who is a media coordinator and writer for CNN's food blog, Eatocracy.
Tish Howard, a former school principal, is no fan of child pageants, but like Westmoreland, thinks government should not be deciding what programs are acceptable for children.
In this case, how would I feel if my girls wanted to enter a pageant?
pageant in high school, but let me stress it was not a beauty pageant but a pageant based on talent, interviewing skills and community service.
Do you think child beauty pageants should be banned in the U.S.?