Anyone who saw baseball's Kansas City Royals fight their way into the World Series for the first time since 1985, only to lose to the San Francisco Giants in Game 7 Wednesday night, was reminded that losers have been known to turn into winners.
When they took the World Series in 2010, they had gone without a championship for 56 years.
A question of whether the Detroit Lions could finally make it to a Super Bowl now exists, halfway through this National Football League season, without the requisite rolling of eyeballs or a yeah, yeah, yeah, when-pigs-fly kind of reply.
Not every cause is lost.
Kansas City had not been to a World Series for 29 years, but finally got its act together this fall.
Los Angeles' hockey team endured decades without claiming a Stanley Cup, but now has drunk out of two of the last three.
No one fears the New York Yankees nowadays; they are pretty much just another pretty good team.
Last NBA championship: None.
You know what?
Last NFL championship: 1957.
Who's to say that after Katy Perry sings at halftime, the team from Motown won't win on Super Bowl Sunday and have Detroiters dancin' in the streets?
No team has been in the National Hockey League as long as this one has without winning a Stanley Cup at least once.
Blues lovers jammed the Scottrade Center expecting to sing a new tune.
Last World Series title: 1983.
Last NBA title: None.
Steve Ballmer, the bald-headed owner, is in.
Last NFL title: 1964.
Hard to believe this franchise, football royalty, has never been to a Super Bowl even once.
Last NHL title: None.
That is a National Hockey League record.
Last World Series title: None.
The M's were on the brink, missing this season's playoffs by just one game.
Last NBA title: 1973.
Last NFL title: None.
It's a franchise that's been to only one Super Bowl, which it lost 49-26.
A couple of seasons ago, the Leafs made the playoffs for the first time in quite a while.
Last World Series title: 1908.
Good things do happen to bad teams.
Join us on Facebook.com/CNNOpinion.