Washington (CNN) -- The retired general who took charge of relief efforts in New Orleans, Louisiana, after Hurricane Katrina said Thursday that the U.S. military should have arrived in earthquake-devastated Haiti 24 hours earlier.
They're on the ground now, and they have a brigade en route, and that's going to make a big difference," he said.
Regarding the airport, he said, "You need to put the right commander there who's going to be a battle captain and keep those aircraft flowing.
"And my national security team understands that I will not put up with any excuses for us not doing the very best in this time of tragedy."
Crowley defended the pace of the rescue.
"Logistics matter.
American was operating humanitarian flights, with three American Eagle aircraft flying 30,000 pounds of supplies into Haiti on Thursday.
There also was no fuel, FAA spokeswoman Laura Brown said.
Paratroopers from the U.S. Army's 82nd Airborne Division, also based at Fort Bragg, were on their way to Haiti, said Rajiv Shah, coordinator for U.S. assistance to the stricken area.
The first of about 3,500 paratroopers were to board C-17 aircraft from Pope Air Force Base in North Carolina and arrive in Haiti before nightfall.
In all, the U.S. military has 329 people in Haiti, including a group that arrived Tuesday night to help open the airfield in Port-au-Prince, the commander of U.S. Southern Command said Thursday.
The aircraft carrier Carl Vinson is to arrive in Haiti on Friday morning, carrying 19 helicopters and 30 pallets of relief goods, he said.
Within four days, 700 soldiers from the 82nd Airborne will be in Haiti, he said.
And a week from Friday, the USNS Comfort, a hospital ship, is slated to arrive, he said.
State Department Counselor Cheryl Mills said U.S.
Obama has promised $100 million in immediate American relief aid to Haiti, an amount the president said will grow.
"This is one of those moments that calls out for American leadership," he said at the White House.
She said a contingent of 2,000 Marines will assist international peacekeepers helping to police Haiti, which has no army.
The United States has been trying to contact U.S. citizens in Haiti to see what they need, Mills said.