What's more, 75% of parents of obese children don't think they have a problem on their hands, according to Children's Healthcare of Atlanta, the state's largest pediatric health care system.
"We felt that because there was so much denial that we needed to make people aware that this is a medical crisis," Chief Administrative Officer Linda Matzigkeit said.
"There seems to be this perception that it's OK to shame children and families struggling with obesity because that will provide an incentive to lose weight," said Rebecca Puhl, director of research and weight stigma initiatives at the Rudd Center for Food Policy & Obesity at Yale University.
We can't do this alone; it's going to take a whole community of physicians, parents and caregivers to solve the problem," Matzigkeit said.
"I think I should've been more proactive earlier on," the Atlanta mother said.
"I just didn't want to have a conversation that would upset her or put a rift between us, also because I knew that would mean me having to face my own issues with weight."
"Being overweight is a problem, but you're not the only one dealing with it," she said.
Through the experience, Maya and her mother were offered the chance to utilize the hospital's Health4Life clinic, where she developed small changes to her daily routine through consultations with doctors, psychologists, nutritionists and exercise physiologists.
"The smaller things definitely make a change," she said in a phone interview Sunday as she and her mother drove to a "Black Girls Run" event in Lithonia, Georgia.
Maya came to the campaign as a paid model, but the hospital considers her an example of how Strong4Life helps children set goals for a healthy lifestyle, complete with videos documenting their journeys.
But among critics, those tools were buried far too deep within the initial ad campaign.
"The approach should be to try to change those ideas with positive messages that encourage kids, parents and the community to get involved in encouraging kids to be active and eat well," said Farrell, a professor of American studies and Women's & Gender Studies at Dickinson College.
"This issue isn't about one actor, but rather the 700,000 New Yorkers who struggle with diabetes, which kills 1,700 people a year and causes amputations in another 3,000," Health Department spokesman John Kelly said in a statement to the paper.
The hard-hitting tone of Children's Healthcare's ads were inspired by Georgia METH Project's "Not Even Once" campaign, along with other state-led campaigns against smoking and drug abuse, which tend to pair a minimalist aesthetic with brutal, straightforward wording.
That means training pediatricians and health care providers on how to talk about obesity with families; it means giving families the tools to start making steps toward positive change.
"The first phase of the ad campaign was about raising awareness and generating the intent to change.