(CNN) -- Every four years, hundreds of reporters, photojournalists, producers and other journalists take to the campaign trail to document every move of the men and women who want to become president.
There are very few jobs where your office is a bus, a plane, a press riser in the back of a campaign event, and your competitors are also colleagues.
The Obama campaign promptly responded to the story I filed about the exchange, which I captured on my iPhone, by criticizing Romney for not standing up to "hateful and over-the-line rhetoric."
Life on the campaign trail also fleshes out another truth: Though political reporters do compete to break and cover news, we often stick together -- like a "team of rivals" -- when one or all of us feel set upon.
As we approached, security men roped off a few of us from getting near the candidate.
"You can't let some of us near Santorum but tell the rest of us to stay back!"
It happens a lot.
The bodyguard asked me if I knew the reporter.
He followed up with another question on the subject -- a one-two punch that gave all of us a fuller answer to report.
The campaign trail is littered with stories like these: reporters sticking together, working together to file deadlines, even helping each other with broken or missing equipment.
And sure enough, at an event in South Carolina, Romney obliged.
Another fun moment was when, after hearing Romney talk for months about his friendship with an inspiring Olympic athlete, we finally met the man -- gold-medalist and speed skater Derek Parra.
A longtime runner who was hobbled by back surgery the previous summer, Perry would often wake early in those frigid December mornings and hit the treadmill in whatever hotel chain the campaign and its traveling press corps were in.
He liked to watch SportsCenter.
But I also saw that he had more energy on the campaign trail in the final days of the Iowa sprint than he did when he first embarked on his presidential bid in August.
Perry, it turned out, enjoyed the story and our shared interest in running.