Vancouver, British Columbia (CNN) -- Many kids dream of being in the Olympics one day.
He stole from people; he ate from garbage cans; he got locked up in juvenile detention for breaking into a bike shop when he was trying to get something he could sell for money so he could eat.
"I knew that there was something better," Schuffenhauer, 36, said last week as he readied for his third Olympic Games.
Just around the time he was entering junior high, Schuffenhauer's maternal grandmother, Sadie Muniz, took him.
"She reminded me to never give up and always push on," he said.
Track and field was to be a turning point; he had real friends now and the parents of one of his teammates eventually would adopt him.
An oft-injured ankle failed him again, and hurting so bad he couldn't walk, he had to give up on his dream of going to Sydney.
One of the Olympic team members on the top U.S. four-man team tested positive for steroids, so Schuffenhauer was called into duty.
Schuffenhauer retired from bobsledding after the 2006 Torino Games, where he was part of the two-man team that finished 14th.
He and Savage had to solve a dilemma: either he would give up on the idea of another Olympics or he would go back to full-time training with the team.
"It's been amazing that she's been able to stand by me," he said of Savage, now his fiancée.
The bank kicked them out, and Savage and the kids moved into a rental while Schuffenhauer went away for seven months at a time.
The owners of the store where he was caught stealing as a youth offered him one of their bikes to raffle off.
He worked closely with a chiropractor and a team physician to get back on track.
I'm here.
But Schuffenhauer has faced improbable many times before.
After the Games, Schuffenhauer plans to return home, find work, take online classes towards a sports science degree and move to the next chapter of his life.
Asked if those chapters will take written form one day, he said he had considered it, but right now he has a family to return to.