"I wanted to say I am sorry for the loss of your son," Zimmerman said in an unusual appeal directly to Martin's family before he testified in the Seminole County Courthouse in Sanford.
Zimmerman's attorney, Mark O'Mara, said after the hearing that his client was responding to an interview in which Martin's mother, Sybrina Fulton, said she wanted to hear from the man who shot her son.
Martin's parents were "completely devastated" over the decision to allow Zimmerman to post bond and eventually go free, attorney Benjamin Crump said.
With the 10% cash payment customarily made to secure bond, Zimmerman could be freed with $15,000 from his family, attorneys said.
De la Rionda said no decision has been made on whether to allow Zimmerman to leave the state.
"He said, 'Mom, if I don't go, they don't have nobody,' " she said.
According to authorities, Zimmerman has said he killed Martin in self-defense after the teenager accosted him, knocking him to the ground and bashing his head against the concrete.
Martin's family and the special prosecutor appointed to investigate the case have rejected that argument, saying they believe Zimmerman disobeyed the instructions of a police dispatcher to stop following Martin, racially profiled him and unjustly killed him.
In the call, Zimmerman said he was following Martin after the teen started to run, prompting the dispatcher to tell him, "We don't need you to do that."
Zimmerman said he reached for his cell phone, then Martin punched him in the nose.
He said wounds on the back of Zimmerman's head were consistent with his skull being struck with something harder than his skull, and said under questioning from O'Mara that the object could have been a concrete sidewalk.
But he said there's more to come when the case comes to trial.
Crump said Martin's father, Tracy Martin, wept through much of Friday hearing, and the family was distraught at the prospect of Zimmerman being able to reunite with his family.
CNN's John Couwels contributed to this report.