But wait!
Premium fuel -- which cost about 12 percent more than regular at U.S. pumps last month -- is required for the fortwo.
If you drive a 20-mpg vehicle 15,000 miles a year, that's an extra $180, each year, toward those extra few octane points.
Regular unleaded is fine across all the models of Ford's Lincoln  luxury brand, says Hall, so "as a luxury car buyer you don't have that added premium of premium fuel."
Another exception in the luxury-car realm is Hyundai; the automaker chose to tune the new high-performance V-8 engine in its Genesis sedan for premium fuel, but it also certified it for regular-grade.
Along with several European automakers, the BMW Group recommends premium fuel for all of its vehicles -- including the economical MINI Cooper -- yet Ford doesn't even recommend premium for its sporty, V-8-powered Mustang GT.
The best way to tell, advises John Nielsen, director of AAA's Auto Repair and Buying Network, is to simply look at the inside of the fuel door; if it says, "use premium fuel only," and specifies a higher octane number (regular is typically 87, premium is 91 or higher), then the expensive stuff is actually required for the vehicle.
Typically, within the same brand of gasoline, between regular and premium, "the difference is really just octane," confirms Prentiss Searles, Marketing Issues Manager at the American Petroleum Institute.
To call a fuel regular, midgrade, or premium, Searles explains, only relates to octane; there's no other requirement that assures greater purity, more detergents, or better additives.
Last year, as gasoline prices crept past four dollars a gallon for regular grade and approached five dollars in some places for premium, many motorists with rapidly emptying wallets broke the premium habit and filled up their vehicle with regular for the first time.
The actual heat energy in gasoline is typically the same whether it's regular or premium, but the higher octane rating means it can burn in a more controlled fashion -- useful only if the engine can take advantage of it.
Honda spokesman Chris Martin advises against using regular for any vehicle for which premium is recommended.
In a lot of cases, Nielsen sums, the fuel specs are simply an engineering issue; the engine was designed and tested with premium fuel, and they didn't design it to run on premium -- although it might do just fine.
If your car wasn't built with an appetite for premium, save yourself the money.