Coober Pedy, Australia (CNN) -- Coober Pedy is one of the least accessible towns in Australia -- the place where the old American West meets Mars -- which is probably why it gained a reputation as the place where outlaws went to hide.
As they mined the earth to discover one of the world's richest gem deposits, they also discovered why Westerners didn't settle in this barren, desolate region of Australia before: The heat.
There's a reconstructed "Star Wars" spaceship, underground hotels, a Volkswagon beetle painted like an opal dangling from a store, signs for underground churches, a kangaroo orphanage, a couple of mining museums, underground home tours, and a pizza place that sells pies with toppings like kangaroo, emu sausage, sweet cranberry, asparagus, onions and Camembert.
Coober Pedy remains a popular tourist destination for those seeking an authentic Outback experience (or who want to see where films like "Red Planet," "Mad Max" and "Priscilla, Queen of the Desert" were filmed).
Outlaws came to Coober Pedy a century ago to find their fortune.
Outback Mail Run Tour: Guests travel 13 hours with an Australian mail carrier to deliver mail and supplies to five cattle stations (including the largest in Australia) and two towns (including one of the smallest in Australia).
Once the stars have risen, guests travel back to the Old Cemetery in Coober Pedy, where a guide delights them with ghost stories of the town's most notable residents.
Fossicking: Tourists in Coober Pedy are welcome to dig for their own opal fortune at public fossicking sites in town.
By plane: Regional Express operates a two-hour flight from Adelaide to Coober Pedy most days of the week.
By bus: Greyhound offers daily service to Coober Pedy from both Adelaide and Alice Springs.
Desert Cave Hotel: Located in the middle of Coober Pedy's main street, this is the town's only four-star hotel.
Underground Bed and Breakfast: Owners Ana and Ken Male treat their guests to truly authentic Coober Pedy accommodation.
John's serves up not only traditional pies but also regional specialties like the Malu (smoked kangaroo, tomato sauce, mozzarella cheese, eggplant, marinated tomatoes, roasted peppers, eggplant and olives) and the Coat of Arms (sweet cranberry, mozzarella cheese, Camembert, emu metworst, spinach and smoked kangaroo).
Hutchinson Street, Coober Pedy
Umberto's: Located in the Desert Cave Hotel, Umberto's is Coober Pedy's finest dining establishment, and is known for its Mod-Oz cuisine, including regional specialties like kangaroo, camel, emu and Australian beef.
If visitors are too tired to move after eating, they can stay in one of the pub's hotel rooms.
The Outback Mail Run Tour stops here for dinner.