The court's 5-4 ruling threw out congressionally mandated limits on the total one can give to all federal candidates in an election cycle.
The practical effect: it would allow well-heeled donors to spread the wealth to give to more candidates and political groups.
"Every time this current Supreme Court has confronted a campaign finance restriction, it's struck it down," said Thomas Goldstein, publisher of SCOTUSblog.com.
"Because individuals' direct contributions are limited, would-be donors may turn to other avenues for political speech" than direct contributions to office-seekers, said Roberts.
"The government may no more restrict how many candidates or causes a donor may support than it may tell a newspaper how many candidates it may endorse," he said.
He equates his donations to "core political speech."
"The reason we have limitations on the dollars an individual can give is to create some sense of fairness, so that if we do have a campaign finance system driven by donations, we have as many opportunities for as many people as possible to participate," said Robert Zimmerman, a prominent Democratic fundraiser.
The current case deals with direct political contributions.
That and a subsequent decision from a federal appeals court in Washington have led to a proliferation of so-called "super PACs"-- separate political action committees that can raise and spend unlimited amounts of cash from businesses, unions, and advocacy groups.
Limits on direct contributions to candidates by corporations and individuals remain in place, the focus in part of the current McCutcheon appeal.
Regular PACs may also give limited donations to federal candidates and political parties, while super PACs cannot.
Figures from the Center for Responsive Politics for the 2012 race showed about 600 donors leveraged their money to each give the maximum of about $48,000 total -- benefitting no more than 17 presidential or congressional candidates.
The FEC will now be tasked with taking this high court opinion and crafting new rules to ease limits on aggregate spending.
And political parties certainly will have more money to spend.
The case is McCutcheon v. Federal Election Commission (12-536).