Music was the heartbeat of the $42.3 million spectacular, an aural backdrop arguably worthy of the "Isle of Wonders" hype, creating an almost tangible cultural DNA of what the organizers feel is to be British.
The Beatles may well be a band form another century but the 28 million people who follow the now defunct band's official Facebook page suggests they are loved the world over as much as ever.
The vision had always been clear even back in the Bird's Nest Stadium -- when Led Zeppelin's legendary axeman Jimmy Page and stunning soul singer Leona Lewis belted out "Whole Lotta Love" from the top of a double-decker bus to provide soundtrack to the handing over of hosting duties from China.
Jamie Fullerton - features editor for the NME (New Musical Express), Britain's pre-eminent weekly music magazine, told CNN: "What's really interesting is the set included bands like New Order and Happy Mondays, organizers tipping their hat towards the cult element of British rock 'n' roll music, which is very different to what you see at an event like the Superbowl.
"The Olympics is a cultural event and the Games is about hammering home the sense of location as much as anything, it's natural for music to be a big part of that especially because it's so integral to our identity in Britain.
Sales of British music abroad reached $2.9 billion in retail value in 2011 with British artists accounting for almost 13% of global sales of recorded music, according to BPI (the representative body of the British Music Industry) figures.
The Londoner's second album, 21, sold 18 million copies, accounting for 1.6% of all albums sold in the global music market that year.
We ran a survey last year to ask whether the UK population thought that we'd made an important contribution to world music.
Eight out of 10 thought we did, and the same number said they were proud of the music Britain produces.
But, arguably, by putting popular music at the center of the showpiece Boyle, and the local organizers, focused on an area where Britain can still boast of superpower status.
Now, back to the "Nanana nahs."