It was a tantalizing lead offering hope that investigators would solve the mystery -- at last -- of what happened to the 6-year-old boy who disappeared on his way to the school bus stop 33 years ago.
Then, most recently, a cadaver dog picking up the scent of human remains in a basement near Etan's home.
In the two weeks following Etan's disappearance, police put in more than 4,000 hours on the case, interviewing some 500 people, Cohen writes in her book.
The police officers who'd camped in the Patz home, answering phones and dispatching detectives to follow up on possible leads, packed up and left, the emergency phase of the response over.
Police found photos of young boys among the man's possessions, and took them to Etan's parents to see if their son was one of them.
Like the other leads, nothing came of them.
Ramos acknowledged picking up a boy he believed was Etan and bringing him back to his apartment for sex, according to Cohen.
They were there to deliver the news the family had long dreaded -- that investigators believed their son was dead and they believed Ramos was responsible, Cohen writes.
At the same time, the federal authorities said they'd come to the end of their journey, saying only New York state prosecutors could take the case to court.
But none of those milestones brought them closer to what the family has long said it wants, barring the return of their son: a criminal conviction.
The promise that authorities were closer to mounting a criminal case seemed alluringly close last week, when investigators flooded the neighborhood and began dismantling the basement where handyman Othniel Miller once had a workshop.
Then investigators began to tear down drywall and cut through concrete in search of clues.
Mike Huff, a retired police detective and cold-case investigator in Tulsa, Oklahoma, who now heads the International Association of Cold Case Investigators, said as he watched coverage of the case, the kinds of details that were emerging led him to believe investigators were confident they had finally come up with a solid line on hard physical evidence in the case.
Etan's family learned Sunday the search had come up empty.
Through his attorney and daughter, Miller has denied any role in Etan's disappearance.
"It's a success that 33 years later, somebody is still looking at it," he said.