The CBS show will enter its ninth and final season on September 23, with an hourlong episode, giving one last chance to play out the stories of Ted and his friends before -- we hope -- seeing him happily settle down.
It ties in with something to come later in the season involving the kids, which Bays said they shot during the second season for whenever the ending arrived.
Knowing what we have left to tell, this little story we've been meaning to tell for eight years now, it would have felt really abrupt to end it after eight seasons."
"How I Met Your Mother" has traditionally used multi-episode narrative arcs and flashbacks to keep the story moving, often jumping in time or extending a season over the course of a year.
Last season left the door open for the resolution of several storylines.
"It seems like it's something Marshall wants to tell her in person," Segel said.
I don't know how they've planned time-wise for the season; they could wrap it up in the finale for all we know.
Fryman confirmed fans will see Ted meet the character very quickly into the ninth season and said viewers are "going to get to know her."
As for the revelation of Milioti in the role of the mother last season, the creators said keeping that secret was the hardest thing they've done on the show.
Everyone else you saw walking around there is the 'How I Met Your Mother' writers (and crew).
Every day we were terrified that it would get out, but it didn't and that was great."
The cast members seemed emotional about "How I Met Your Mother" coming to an end, but Harris said they are just trying to enjoy filming this season.
Smulders, who also appears in the season premiere of the new ABC show "Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D," said, "It hasn't started to sink in yet.
Literally the words they used to me in season one: 'Well, I just feel like it's really exotic.'
"I was actually talking with Carter and Craig last night about how there's this new fashion of dumping 12 episodes out.
Like Netflix is now giving all these episodes, and they can do really serialized arcs.
"