"The allegation so far with this phone hacking scandal includes a component where someone within News Corp.'s organization perhaps made payments to London police officers to perhaps obtain information that would thus allow News of the World to write newspapers and sell newspapers," said Mike Koehler, a professor of business law at Butler University in Indianapolis, Indiana.
If anyone at News Corp. participated in payments to police officers or authorized such payments or even knew about them and failed to stop them, the case could wind up in the lap of the U.S. Department of Justice.
Police said last week that they had identified almost 4,000 potential targets of phone-hacking.
So, if a bribe was made and not properly noted, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and the DOJ could each have a case, he said.
And if Rupert Murdoch -- the 80-year-old Australian-born head of News Corp. who became a U.S. citizen in 1985 -- knew what was going on and authorized it -- even implicitly -- "he could have some potential exposure," Zarin said.
"The SEC has brought cases against U.S. companies who had no knowledge of what foreign subsidiaries were doing, but had misbooked it," he said, adding that the SEC blamed the companies for not having set up the internal controls that would have caught the illegal behavior.
If the charges wind up being nothing more than civil accounting violations, the SEC would handle the case and DOJ would not become involved, said James Tillen, coordinator of the FCPA Practice Group at Miller and Chevalier, a Washington-based law firm specializing in international regulatory issues, tax and litigation.
But a criminal prosecution by DOJ would be the most to fear, since it would carry the potential of jail time, he said.
But fines are typically pegged to how much a company or an individual gained as a result of the crime, he said.
"If the Department of Justice were satisfied that the U.K. had sufficient ability to prosecute this, then they may step aside," Tillen said.
Bribery Act, which became law on July 1, but it is not retroactive, Tillen said.
"Of the 10 largest fines in FCPA history, eight have been against foreign companies," Tillen said.
"I plan to introduce a bill that would reform the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and bring it up-to-date with the changing world," Sensenbrenner said in the statement.
Foreign law enforcement officers are clearly foreign officials and it is absolutely absurd to imply that any changes to the FCPA would change that status or permit U.S. businesses to bribe policemen," he added.