Cesar Chavez is something of a national icon.
"I was really surprised that there wasn't already a film out about Chavez's life, so that's why I spent the past four years making this and hope the country will join me in celebrating his life and work," Diego Luna said during Tuesday's screening of "Cesar Chavez: An American Hero" in New York.
He and Dolores Huerta co-founded what's now known as the United Farm Workers.
Without Chavez, California's farm workers wouldn't have fair wages, lunch breaks and access to toilets or clean water in the fields.
States such as New York, where farm workers face long hours without any overtime pay or a day of rest, are of concern for human rights activist Kerry Kennedy, president of the Robert F. Kennedy Center for Justice and Human Rights.
Farm workers here can be fired if they tried collective bargaining," Kennedy said after the "Cesar Chavez" screening.
Farm workers across the country face hardship.
"Farm workers shouldn't struggle so much to feed their own families, and we can be part of that change," Luna said.
To help facilitate that change, Luna and the film's cast -- Michael Peña as Chavez, America Ferrera as his wife, Helen, and Rosario Dawson as labor leader Dolores Huerta -- have been trekking all over the country promoting the film and a petition to make Chavez's birthday on March 31 a national holiday.
Right now, Cesar Chavez Day is recognized only in California, Texas and Colorado.
We even had people that were killed in the movement but we were still able to organize," Huerta said.
Plana, known for his role as the father on ABC's "Ugly Betty" TV series, said his first acting gig was in the UFW's theatrical troupe educating and helping raising farm workers' awareness about their work conditions.
"Well, first Cesar didn't want to spend the time making the film because there was so much work to do, and he was hesitant on being singled out because there were so many others that contributed to the UFW's success," said Rodriguez.
"Latinos go to the movies more than anyone else, but we're the least represented on screen.
"There is power in being a consumer and boycotting.