A law then went on the books.
Americans have discovered that a tiny, radical minority can immobilize their entire country and hold it as still as a robbery victim staring at the barrel of a pointed gun.
And regardless of how this might anger the majority, they must live with the fact that it can happen again.
Sen. Ted Cruz of Texas and his acolytes of extremism have cracked the Republican Party into two dissimilar parts.
Political recalcitrance over the American debt ceiling threatened to toss international markets into chaos simply because a small cabal of conservatives did not like a new law to provide health care to millions of people who cannot otherwise afford premiums.
Cruz of Texas, who has become the de facto leader of the national GOP and appears to be shepherding his party into a burning building, won office by defeating his state's lieutenant governor in a July runoff.
The Texas tea party is made joyful by Cruz's exhortations, and in the obscure runoff 15 months ago, during the 100-plus-degree-burn of summer, they voted for him in big numbers, while moderates were hesitant to venture outdoors to even buy cold beer--or vote.
The streak of anarchy that runs through the politics of Cruz and the tea party ought to frighten sober Americans.
The obvious conclusion was that he lusted for attention to build a reputation among the tea party activists, whom he wants to begin thinking of him as their presidential candidate for 2016.
Cruz thinks he can speak directly to the voters and rise without the help of the political infrastructure of his party.
Such an unconventional strategy may be his only hope, because there are few left in the GOP who will offer him any respect.
Cruz has at least done us the benefit of showing us that our system functions best as a platform for campaigning and getting re-elected and not for conducting the people's business; not even the disgraced Richard Nixon created such jeopardy with his betrayal.
They like this game because now it only takes one person to storm the battlements that protect American democracy.
The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of James Moore.