President Barack Obama delivered one of the most crucial addresses of his presidency, seeking to convince an overwhelmingly skeptical public of the need to punish Syria militarily for alleged chemical weapons use while demonstrating a commitment to pursuing a surprise diplomatic opening to remove those stockpiles from the war-torn nation.
In a major development, Syria has reportedly accepted a Russian proposal to hand over its chemical weapons stockpile to international control, but the details of what was actually agreed to are still murky.
Others foaming at the mouth, gasping for breath.
On that terrible night, the world saw in gruesome detail the terrible nature of chemical weapons, and why the overwhelming majority of humanity has declared them off limits -- a crime against humanity and a violation of the laws of war," he said.
"America is not the world's policeman.
That's what makes us exceptional," he said.
A CNN/IRC International initial poll of viewers of the speech found that 47% said Obama made a convincing case for action, compared with 50% who said he did not.
Obama stressed again that the use of sarin gas in Syria was a moral abomination that Americans and the international community simply cannot tolerate.
Additionally, nearly seven in 10 say that it's not in the U.S. national interest to get involved in Syria's civil war.
Still, Obama laid out a strategic rationale for military force, saying that what happens in Syria could affect allies in the region, including Israel -- all in the U.S. interest, he said.
And a failure to stand against the use of chemical weapons would weaken prohibitions against other weapons of mass destruction, and embolden Assad's ally, Iran, which must decide whether to ignore international law by building a nuclear weapon or to take a more peaceful path," Obama said.
"The purpose of this strike would be to deter Assad from using chemical weapons, to degrade his regime's ability to use them and to make clear to the world that we will not tolerate their use," Obama said.
"Even a limited strike will send a message to Assad that no other nation can deliver," he said.
Sen. Rand Paul, a Kentucky Republican and a member of the Foreign Relations Committee, told CNN after the speech that Obama did not provide a clear military objective for attacking Syria.
If the U.S. military attack is extremely limited and al-Assad retaliates, what are the contingency plans?
She said it's one of her biggest concerns.
Obama said the United States does not dismiss threats.
Neither Assad nor his allies have any interest in escalation that would lead to his demise," Obama said.
The administration distrusts Syria and its ally Russia, and it worries that the proposal to hand over its chemical weapons stockpile is simply a tactic to buy time and derail a potential U.S. strike.
Riedel said the speech put the president in a difficult situation.
Rep. Valadao said the president's speech did nothing to convince him to support a possible military strike.