Qena, Egypt (CNN) -- In a deserted playground a few hundred miles south of Cairo, 13-year-old Asmaa Ashraf fiddles with a broken rusted slide.
Such aspirations, however, amount to fantasy for most youth in a country still struggling to land on its feet after being turned completely upside down.
And as the government struggles to wade through the country's protracted political problems, Egypt's festering education system is orphaned -- even though, with a growing youth population, it's key to the country's future.
Students and teachers seem to be on the verge of exhaustion rather than bursting with inspiration.
To make up for the gaps in education, millions of middle-class Egyptian families spend a large part of their income -- sometimes as much as 25% -- on private tutoring.
He says he gives three hours of private tutoring in the evening and does mechanical work on the side.
For parents with any hope that their children will be better off, investing in education is essential.
According to a recent World Bank report, the illiteracy rate for young people in Upper Egypt is 17%, higher than the national average of 11%, and the illiteracy rates for females is 24%, almost twice that of males.
"This is a generation that desperately needs to learn how to critically think, to learn how to be in the 21st century," said Malak Zalouk, director of the Middle East Institute for Higher Education at the American University in Cairo.
Nafham, which means "We understand" in Arabic, hopes to provide an alternative -- a virtual classroom -- for struggling Egyptian families.
Based on the Teach for America model, Ramadan plans to recruit ambitious college graduates -- most from within the Egyptian community and diaspora -- to commit to a two-year service in which they are trained extensively and placed in underprivileged schools.
"We could all stand around and protest that the government is failing us, or we could go out and offer the solutions," she said.
But until those solutions are offered, Asmaa -- and a whole generation in waiting -- will continue to linger near broken slides, daydreaming about the future.