Los Angeles (CNN) -- Los Angeles Clippers co-owner Shelly Sterling asked a Los Angeles probate court Wednesday to uphold her negotiated sale of the team for $2 billion despite her husband's objections, her attorney said.
Donald Sterling opposes a sale of the team and says he gave his wife a purported letter only to negotiate with a buyer, not to formally sell the team, his attorney said Wednesday.
We also have a third distinguished doctor who's an expert in this field, mental capacity, who has reviewed the evidence, and supports the other doctors and agrees on that conclusion.
You have massive amount of 150 real estate holdings, and it requires a person to run the business who is competent, and the doctor -- three doctors -- have said that he lacks the mental capacity," O'Donnell said.
Dr. James Edward Spar, a specialist in geriatric psychiatry who examined Donald Sterling on May 22, said Sterling suffers "mild global cognitive impairment" and "the overall picture is consistent with early Alzheimer's disease, but could reflect other forms of brain disease," court papers said.
Spar said in May 27 letter that Donald Sterling "is substantially unable to manage his finances and resist fraud and undue influence, and is no longer competent to act as trustee of his trust," court documents said.
"In addition, the findings described are fully consistent with the general loss of brain tissue and, more specifically, with the pattern of impaired brain functions demonstrated by the PET scan of May 16, 2014."
Adam Streisand, the attorney for Ballmer, said his client was hoping for a speedy court date.
In Shelly Sterling's court filings, NBA general counsel Richard W. Buchanan said if the Sterlings don't sell the team by September 15, the league may sell the team or renew termination proceedings against the Clippers or both.
"To date, I have not received Donald's written consent to the sale of the Clippers to (Ballmer) for $2 billion," Shelly Sterling said in court papers.
In a statement Tuesday, Sterling said he has apologized for the remarks and his apology is sincere.
In addition to damages, the lawsuit seeks a restraining order.