After a weekend of intense investigation, authorities are piecing together more details about Friday's fatal shooting at Los Angeles International Airport, including the suspect's behavior earlier in the week and a warning from his family that may have come minutes too late.
According to someone who knew Ciancia and his three roommates well, Ciancia began asking for a ride to the airport days before the shooting.
Although Ciancia has no known history of mental illness, he said in the texts that he was unhappy, and the messages were alarming enough that Ciancia's father decided to call police.
They did later when a reporter called the police chief, asking him to comment on the shooting.
Andy Smith says police were first called to check on Ciancia at 10:06 a.m. Officers arrived at his apartment six minutes later, according to Smith.
Ciancia then went up an escalator but returned to shoot Hernandez again, apparently after seeing him move.
Hernandez, 39, was the first TSA officer to die in the line of duty since the agency was created in 2001.
Grigsby, who was shot in the foot, told reporters Monday he was injured while helping an elderly man move to a safe area.
So it was airport police officers who eventually shot Ciancia multiple times in the chest, also striking him in the face and neck.
"The responsibility for protecting airport security is not a TSA function but something that I think we need to certainly examine, given what happened in Los Angeles," he said.
The incident forced authorities to shut down parts of the airport, evacuate travelers and put a temporary hold on some departures and landings.
Some of those cancellations and delays may have been caused by problems other than the shooting, however.
"We wish to convey, too, our hopes that those who were wounded during this incident will experience quick and full recoveries.
While we do not mean to minimize the grief and distress experienced by many other families, we hope that the public will understand that this is a very difficult time for our family, too," the family said.
"It's almost like an open shopping mall," he said.