It's been a year since China's government lifted its ban on the Chinese version of U.S.-based Wikipedia yet it remains unclear whether Wikipedia has gained any share of the country's massive Internet readership.
In recent months, Wales has held a series of meetings with officials from the State Council Information Office, the government body charged with internet censorship in China, to establish a dialogue between the Wikipedia community and Chinese government.
What is a big concern for Wales is whether Wikipedia can compete with the country's two homegrown encyclopedia websites that emerged while Wikipedia was blocked: Hudong.com and Baidu Baike, an online knowledge sharing site launched by Baidu, the No.
This would not happen anywhere else in the world.
Yet Wales' star power alone may not be enough to convert China's 300 million internet users into Wikipedians, or volunteers who run the website.
And it is also very natural for Chinese to use domestic encyclopedia websites that some say are better suited to the online habits and informational demands of the country's exploding population of internet surfers.
Hudong has more than 3 million articles and 1.7 million registered users, according to its website.
Members also can win prizes, like laptops and iPods, for high participation on the site.
Paid staff are charged with mobilizing the community to contribute to certain topics as well as filter out content that might offend the Chinese government.
"In some cases that is not completely clear, so right now there are certain pages that are filtered from Wikipedia.
Since Hudong's and Baidu Baike's business operations are based in China, the companies have little choice but to comply with government policy or face the same fate as Wikipedia.
"I don't think they can become a reference book like Wikipedia because they don't have a serious community focusing on improving the quality of content as well as trying to respect neutral point of view," said Isaac Mao, a Chinese Wikipedian and blogger.
"Wikipedia has been open for more than a year, and we are hoping that will continue.
"I don't want to be the Jimmy Wales of China.