After emerging from the showdown over the Republican-led government shutdown relatively unscathed, the Obama administration finds itself under assault on three fronts: problems surrounding Obamacare, the revelations of the U.S. spying on allies, and the 2012 attack on the U.S diplomatic compound in Benghazi, Libya, the latter for which a senator has threatened to hold up all of the Obama administration's nominations.
"It's an administration which has some really smart people in it, and a lot of younger people.
This time, Marilyn Tavenner, head of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services -- which is in charge of the Obamacare website -- became the first administration official to formally apologize to Americans for the troublesome start.
Then, the White House found itself on the defensive over revelations that, despite claims to the contrary by the Obama administration, some who have purchased insurance on the open market will lose their coverage and have to buy new policies.
It's been known for some time that some of the policies would have to change -- the Department of Health and Human Services said in 2010 as part of a federal regulation that up to two thirds of individual policies wouldn't meet regulations allowing them to continue under what's called "grandfathered" status.
It also offered Republicans ammunition to renew their attacks on the plan.
Rep. Peter King, the Republican chairman of the House Subcommittee on Counterterrorism and Intelligence, was incredulous that the president didn't know what was going on.
Longstanding Republican criticism of the administration's handling of the attack on the U.S. diplomatic compound in Benghazi, which left the U.S. ambassador to Libya and three other Americans dead, resurfaced this week with Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-South Carolina, threatening to hold up administration nominations over the issue.
"I'm going to block every appointment in the United States Senate until the survivors are being made available to Congress," he said.
CNN's Ted Barrett, Catherine E. Shoichet, Jake Tapper, Jim Sciutto, Elise Labott, Brooke Baldwin and Jim Acosta contributed to this report.