It isn't the first time Romney's oratory fumbles have put his campaign on its heels, handed opponents material to push the stereotype of him as an out-of-touch businessman and provoked members of the party's conservative base to question his worthiness as their standard-bearer.
Another Democratic strategist said that Romney's comments played into the two narratives that they have pushed: "First, that he doesn't care about the middle class.
"On the second front ... in order to give big tax cuts for the rich, Mitt Romney is going to have to raise taxes on the middle class.
And he's running on a platform that would fundamentally change the tax code so that you lower the base, broaden the base and lower tax rates across the board."
While some some applauded Romney's comments, others saw them as reinforcing why they questioned his legitimacy.
"It's worth recalling that a good chunk of the 47 percent who don't pay income taxes are Romney supporters — especially of course seniors (who might well "believe they are entitled to heath care," a position Romney agrees with), as well as many lower-income Americans (including men and women serving in the military) who think conservative policies are better for the country even if they're not getting a tax cut under the Romney plan.
And so those are people that I'm not going to be able to reach with my 20 percent tax cut or my cuts in spending because they would be concerned.
"I'm torn by two perspectives in this regard," Romney is shown saying in a clip that only shows only the candidate speaking and does not include any questions that may have prompted his remarks.
Last week, Romney was criticized by Democrats and Republicans alike for an aggressive and politically charged response to violent attacks on U.S. embassies in Egypt and Libya.
"It's not a surprise that these blunt remarks are going to be made in front of this type of audience.
In January of this year, he told a crowd of supporters that he likes "being able to fire people" in a talk about insurance companies.
In a February interview, Romney told CNN that he is "not concerned about the very poor," citing the safety net in place by the American government and said that his primary focus is the middle class.
Jim Acosta, Peter Hamby, Ashley Killough, Kevin Liptak, Jeanne Sahadi and Rachel Streitfeld contributed to this report.