A woman is in the hospital after she was mauled by a bear while walking in her central Florida neighborhood on Monday.
As their populations grow, they spread out, often from the Ocala National Forest south into the swampy sprawl of Greater Orlando.
Instead of scaring it away, too many people say: "Oh, isn't he cute.
But it's the beginning of the end for that bear, because the people are teaching it to associate the smell of people with food.
Deer are eating our gardens and spreading ticks that cause Lyme disease; coyotes are killing our pets; turkeys are chasing our children to school; and geese have overrun our soccer fields because they don't fear us.
And we have done all sorts of things to help them lose their natural fear.
Edges and hiding places are homes: A coyote can have a litter of pups in that brush behind your garbage and you won't know it.
We should be celebrating a conservation success story that is unique on the planet.
The 2000 census showed that for the first time, an absolute majority of the population lived neither in cities nor on working farms but in the vast sprawl zone in between.
There we get most of our nature on digital screens, where wild creatures are often portrayed as pets performing all sorts of antics.
But sprawl man has largely gotten out of the predation business.
In Massachusetts, for example, it's illegal to discharge a firearm within 150 feet of a hard-surfaced road or within 500 feet of an occupied dwelling without the occupants' written permission -- often not easy to get.
These days, deer kill more than twice that many, both in deer-vehicle crashes and when drivers swerve into a tree or an oncoming vehicle.
No places for understory birds and the insects they feed their newborn.
More bears and more denatured people living in the same habitat.
Nuisance wildlife control people say tossing rocks at coyotes would help reinstill their fear of people.
There are all sorts of ways to mitigate them, both lethal and nonlethal.
The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Jim Sterba.