George W. Bush, a fellow Texas Republican, ran for and won the presidency in 2000 and served two terms, the lawmaker told CNN.
Wednesday marks the 95th anniversary of Congress' approval of the 19th amendment to the Constitution, guaranteeing women the right to vote.
The path to the presidency is especially challenging for Republican women and it contrasts sharply with Democrats who -- as buzz grows around Hillary Clinton -- may be poised to nominate the first female presidential candidate of either major party.
Susana Martinez of New Mexico, or New Hampshire Sen. Kelly Ayotte, it's often couched as "she would make such a good running mate," not in a way that is on par with male candidates, former Sen. Olympia Snowe, R-Maine, told CNN.
Even when they do seek office, studies have shown that conservative women in particular have had a tougher time getting the networking and financial support -- either from within the party or from outside groups -- needed to mount successful bids, Walsh said.
SarahPAC, the political action committee of former Alaska governor and 2008 GOP vice presidential candidate Sarah Palin, has supported a number of conservative women candidates, including New Hampshire's Ayotte in 2010.
The Republican Party is keenly aware of its problems in both recruiting and supporting female candidates and attracting women voters.
The party concluded it needed to beef up its outreach operations and has spent millions on efforts such as Project GROW, which seeks to identify and support more female candidates for the midterm elections, and "14 in 14," a program aimed at wooing more women voters in key states.
"Women have to put a step forward" as well, Snowe said, to better ensure that they are in the running for the nation's top political post.
"That makes it harder for us to say, 'Yes, I'm going to run for president and go to New Hampshire, Iowa, and South Carolina for weeks on end' -- especially if they are in office already and away from their families.
We have to steal the playbook of what she is doing," said Crystal Wright, an editor and blogger with ConservativeBlackChick.com.
... She's a good example of a case study for how women should model their efforts for running for office."