You can find it here.
Here's our Volume II of the most authentically American experiences this country has to offer.
The innovation remains America's favorite wooden path, showing up everywhere from Monopoly, which was inspired by "America's Favorite Playground," to the HBO series "Boardwalk Empire," which takes place in Prohibition-era Atlantic City.
Out West, the Venice Boardwalk in California offers bodybuilders, artists, trinket sellers, magicians and boutique shops a place to be seen.
In the same area are many pueblo sites that provide tours of cave dwellings and indigenous architecture.
Wrigley Field in Chicago, regardless of denomination, is their Vatican.
Boston's Fenway Park has two years on Wrigley (the former was built in 1912), but Fenway has had more significant updates.
Let's not kid ourselves.
Bonding with strangers, drinking and grilling beforehand is 72.4% of the experience.
There's one more sporting event we have to include on the list.
But those competitions weren't founded by the grandson of William Clark of the Lewis and Clark expedition.
The first Woodstock Music & Art Fair in 1969 was one of the most pivotal moments in American cultural history.
As the website puts it, describing Burning Man is "like trying to explain what a particular color looks like to someone who is blind."
Essentially 50,000 creative spirits gather in one of the most desolate areas in the continental United States to wear bizarre clothes, make art, do drugs, experience a new form of communal living, have a hell of a lot of fun and let their freak flags fly.
African-American slaves on Southern plantations were often given scraps and leftovers to eat, and had to make do with whatever vegetables they could grow nearby and with little care, as so much time was spent working.
Jukes arose after emancipation, taking the form of shacks and private houses where African-Americans gathered to listen to and play music, gamble and dance.
Sure, other countries have Christmas lights (or fairy lights, in the UK), but no one else takes it quite as seriously as Americans.
But the greatest displays of holiday spirit can be seen in more rural areas.
The mega-ist of American megachurches is Lakewood Church in Houston, led by senior pastor Joel Osteen.
Every week his message is broadcast to 7 million viewers in more than 100 countries.