This year, 40% of people plan to follow the games on more than one device, with 35% checking in on their tablets and 27% using their smartphone, according to a new study by Harris Interactive.
After years of tape-delayed broadcasts and online video, NBC has caught on that viewers want to follow the Olympics on multiple devices in real time, and is offering the live options in addition to its regular television programming.
They can sign up for cable and cancel after the games are over, but there's no one-time payment option just to access live streaming.
On the main video page, anyone can view the select clips that NBC posts after watching a short ad.
To view them on iPhones, iPads or other mobile devices, go to the mobile version of the site, m.nbcolympics.com.
For the first time, the International Olympic Committee (IOC) will live stream 11 high-definition channels simultaneously over YouTube for 64 territories in Asia and Africa that don't have broadcast deals, but those streams will not be accessible outside of those countries.
Look over the in-app schedule and set up notifications for the events you don't want to miss.
The second app, Official London 2012: Join In App, is more for people attending the games, and has schedules and locations for the various Olympic-related festivities going on in London.
You can narrow it down to just the events you're interested in and follow those feeds (say @L2012Trampoline or @L2012Judo), or keep an eye on all of them at once by following the London 2012 official Twitter list of automated feeds.
If you want more color, find a hashtag for the event you're interested in to get live tweets of the excitement as it happens from attendees and journalists.
If you don't have cable, you can still tune into NBC over the air for nearly round-the-clock coverage, including the four-hour prime-time broadcast that will show the most popular events mixed in with the usual profiles and athlete interviews.
The channel will broadcast a total of 217 hours of Olympic coverage.