Wilfredo De Jesus wants his message heard loud and clear: Evangelical Latino Protestants in the United States are more relevant than ever.
"In the last 10 years, you've seen this bloc of people has grown.
"The number of evangelical Protestants nearly doubled from 7% to 13% when you compare childhood religious affiliation to current religious affiliation," said the institute's Chief Executive Officer, Robert P. Jones.
De Jesus -- or "Pastor Choco," as he is more commonly known -- believes that evangelical Protestants are "what the country needs right now" and could be the key not only for the GOP winning big during the midterms, but also for Republicans to get back to the White House.
"At the core of evangelicals is the fear of God and the institution of family.
We've let a handful of people in our party, that have made some unfortunate statements, control the party's message," Garcia said.
It's my job to show the voters and pretty much the entire party that we need to do a better job communicating."
Much like his friend De Jesus, Salguero believes that Latino evangelicals are the key to victory for any politician.
It would be disingenuous of me to say it doesn't carry heavy electoral gravitas."
I talked to the White House, and I said, 'the president cannot speak from both sides of his mouth.'
The Hispanic Values Survey showed that while there is "dissatisfaction" among Latino voters with the Democratic Party on issues like record deportation numbers under Obama, there is "distrust" of the Republican Party within the Latino community.
"The clearest word of caution to Democrats ... one phrase that is a bellwether question of how well to gauge voters is, 'How well does the party care about people like you?'
The 31-year-old said the focus for the Republicans in winning more Latino votes should be on the economy, whether they are courting evangelical Protestants or others in the community.
Though the issue of immigration reform was ranked high among the concerns of Latino voters, it was in a four-way tie for the third most important issue behind the economy and affordable health care, according to Public Religion Research Institute research.
"Give us someone who is real and speaks the truth and is going to do what they say and mean it.
We'll vote for them, whatever party they're from."