Wander between rows of honey-colored almshouses and thatched cottages, browse the antiques shops or stop for a cream tea and you'll feel transported back in time.
Leading members of the arts and crafts movement were so enamored by the town they made it their home in the early 20th century, and their founder, William Morris, settled in nearby Kelmscott in a gloriously unassuming riverside mansion.
You can visit many of the University's 31 colleges, but don't miss the extraordinary King's College Chapel.
Once a favorite haunt of the influential Bloomsbury Group of writers, intellectuals and artists, this is the place for afternoon tea at the tranquil Orchard Tea Garden.
The region provided ample inspiration for some of England's finest writers and poets, and today you can follow the William Wordsworth trail from his childhood home in Cockermouth to tiny Dove Cottage in Grasmere, and the more tranquil Rydal Mount in Ambleside, where you can sit in the house where he once tested his verse.
The grand vistas, lonesome castles and isolated pubs where you can warm yourself by a peat fire, sip a dram of whisky and put the world to right are all just waiting to be explored.
Nearby is the glorious Isle of Skye or head for the Hebrides to marvel at the mysterious standing stones at Callanish and dip your toes in the azure waters off Lewis and Harris.
It's an excellent spot for gentle hiking or challenging climbs but rather than tackle the busy Mount Snowdon, head instead for Cader Idris, a legendary peak said to be an entrance to the underworld.
A short trip south and you enter an entirely different world at the whimsical Italianate village of Portmeirion.
Head out from the tourist honeypot of Killarney around the Ring of Kerry with its glorious views, sandy beaches and ancient ruins.
Whatever you do, don't miss the Dingle Peninsula with its vast stretch of golden sand at Inch, scenic Conor Pass and beguiling eponymous town where you can down a pint in the wonderfully atmospheric Dick Mack's pub/hardware store.
Head east to reach Carrick-a-Rede, where a narrow swaying rope bridge connects the mainland to a little island traditionally known for its salmon fishing, or go west to the dramatic ruins of Dunluce Castle.