Shaken by the Sandy Hook Elementary School massacre, the retired teacher and longtime resident of Newtown went to his barn, picked up an oak children's bench and went to work.
On a tree and nearby street pole, there were two signs.
He and his wife, Darla, placed the shelf for the children in front and the one for the educators in the back, as if still watching over their young students.
A car pulled up and a man placed a giant brown teddy bear next to the makeshift shrine.
"We did it to help ourselves, and maybe the town," said Henggeler, a resident of 15 years.
Each fresh news report -- each photo of those precious children, those tiny victims with so much youthful exuberance -- brings another wave of emotions, of sorrow, horror and disbelief.
Newtown is grappling with other pressing questions: How does the town handle 26 funerals with only one funeral home?
The bumper stickers throughout town declared: "Nicer in Newtown."
Newtown's most gruesome crime story had been a murder charge against a husband accused of killing his wife in 1984; her remains were found beneath the floor of a barn in 2010.
The flagpole also had been the town's greatest source of controversy for nearly 100 years -- declared a road hazard as cars replaced ox wagons.
Headlines in Friday's Newtown Bee reported on vandalism at a cemetery and warned of police plans for a sobriety checkpoint over the weekend.
At one point, they were told the library was in lockdown.
"We just can't believe it," she said in the gentle voice of a well-schooled librarian.
The old town hall will be turned into a grief counseling center Monday, complete with privacy screens.
Just up the road, Ken Henggeler stood near the memorial with his wife and 22-year-old stepson, Eric Puffer.
His friends teach at the school and "students that they used to have are now dead."
"It just doesn't make any sense why he would go into school where these kids can't even defend themselves."
Jan Philbrick, from the nearby town of Redding, stopped to hug people standing at the memorial.
She described the memorial as beautiful, and said she stopped at it "because we're all in this together."
Like the rest of town, he cried tear soup.