Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia (CNN) -- The search for missing Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 resumed Sunday, but stormy weather may cause problems, the Australian Maritime Safety Authority said.
Michael Kay, a former adviser to the UK Ministry of Defence, said on CNN that the batteries on the flight data recorder, sometimes called the black box, are designed to last only about 30 days.
Eight planes and a number of ships scoured some 97,000 square miles of water Saturday for signs of the plane, with aircraft reporting sightings of objects similar to those reported Friday, the Australian Maritime Safety Authority said.
Then within around three minutes, we found a stripe-shaped object.
But Saturday, a Malaysian official met with relatives and then told reporters he had not closed the door on the hope of relatives that survivors may exist among the 239 people aboard the Boeing 777-200 ER that went missing March 8.
In Beijing on Saturday, some of the relatives of the missing vented their anguish in the streets.
He held aloft a banner that read: "Son, mom and dad's hearts are torn to pieces.
"Miracles do happen, remote or otherwise, and that is the hope that the families want me to convey -- not only to the Malaysian government, MAS (Malaysia Airlines), but also to the world at large," he said.
The new search area is 1,100 kilometers (680 miles) northeast of the previous one and closer to Australia's coast, so it's easier to reach.
Pieces of debris spotted Friday were hundreds of miles away from each other, but given the ocean conditions and the time passed since the airplane's purported crash, they could be part of the same object.
"At one point, sure, everybody on board got a little excited, but it's impossible to tell from that distance what anything is," she said.
When authorities learned of radar data suggesting the plane had turned westward across the Malay Peninsula after losing contact, they expanded the search into the Strait of Malacca.
On Saturday, after confronting relatives' grief, they made that conclusion seem less final.