Rockets flew between Israel and Hamas as tensions in the region continue their upward climb.
Last week they were focused on de-escalation, but now Israel is preparing for a possible deterioration of the situation, he said.
"The enemy has crossed the red lines and will be made to pay the price for its crimes," Mushir Al-Masri, a Hamas leadership figure and member of the Palestinian parliament, wrote on his Facebook page.
Israeli police have questioned six suspects about what they did "before and during the murder" of the Palestinian teen who was abducted and burned to death, Israeli police spokesman Micky Rosenfeld said.
Netanyahu on Monday spoke with the father of the Palestinian teenager who was burned alive in Jerusalem last week, expressing shock at what he called an "abhorrent" murder.
Police have said there is a "strong indication" the attackers may have been motivated by a desire for revenge over the deaths of the three Israeli teenagers, whose bodies were found a week ago in a field in the West Bank.
We've done exactly that," said Mark Regev, spokesman for Netanyahu.
In a region that has experienced decades of fighting and mistrust, the past week's events have still managed to shock -- and to further embitter relations between Israelis and Palestinians.
Meanwhile, the Abu Khedair family is irate over the treatment by Israeli police of one of the burning victim's cousins, an American high school student.
"We're extremely concerned that he's under house arrest right now without really facing any legitimate charges that have been made public, and that those who beat him apparently are walking free," his family attorney said Monday, speaking from Florida.
"From what I understand about the facts of the case, this is not just an innocent bystander who was pulled off of a schoolyard," Israel's ambassador to the United States, Ron Dermer, told "Fox News Sunday."
"They are investigating whether he was throwing rocks," another senior State Department official said.
"This is no excuse for this sort of behavior and we're currently investigating it.
"If they sentence them and demolish their houses and give them life sentences, it might satisfy me a little," Suha Abu Khedair said.
Officials from both sides have called for restraint amid fears that the cycle of horrific violence could continue.