What would it mean for North Korea's young leader as he is about to mark the first anniversary of the death of his father, Kim Jong Il?
Now, the new "Dear Leader" can claim not just a public relations victory but also a tangible accomplishment as he prepared for Monday's anniversary of Kim Jong Il's death.
In that sense, the satellite launch was proof of progress and power, said Bill Richardson, the former U.S. ambassador to the United Nations who traveled to North Korea in 2010.
"I think this is very important to Kim Jong Un to build political legitimacy and bolster the spirits of his people," he said.
"Then, it was a major embarrassment," said Han Park, director of the University of Georgia's Center for the Study of Global Issues who was in North Korea at the time of the failed launch.
"All the people across the country are greatly excited at the news of the successful launch and progressives are extending sincere congratulations to them," it said.
Park, who has been visiting North Korea for decades, said conditions for ordinary North Koreans remain bleak, though there is not the mass starvation the country suffered in the 1990s.
"In the big scheme of things, Kim Jong Un must have thought that North Korea would be taken more seriously (after a rocket launch)."
Sigal agreed that Kim Jong Un has shown signs that he wants to stimulate economic growth but the problem is that means he has to make a change from his father's military-first policy that devoted billions of dollars into weapons development.
But the rocket launch this week certainly cast the spotlight back on the enigmatic nation and served as a reminder to global powers that the North Korean problem isn't just going to slither sway.
Richardson believes the main message this week has to be that the United States and the four other countries that have been involved in talks with North Korea -- China, Japan, South Korea and Russia -- have to come up with a new approach in their dealings with Pyongyang.
Sigal said the only way to get what Washington wants on the nuclear front is to come to the table.
Sigal likes to say that there is only one thing tougher than negotiating.