"I've had motorists that drive a couple of inches from my elbow, trying to scare me," he said.
In the town of Cambridge, motorists see bicyclists all over the place and are considerate.
Motorists often see bands of bikes on the streets on the final Fridays of each month as cyclists across the nation gather for evening group rides called Critical Mass.
One caller to the program was a long-haul truck driver who accused many bicycle riders of failing to respect the law and not riding with the flow of traffic.
Although bike sales took a dip during the recession of 2009, more than 18 million were sold each year for the seven previous years, according to the National Sporting Goods Association.
In Portland, Oregon, which is ranked second on Bicycling magazine's list of Top 50 Bike Friendly Cities, more than 6 percent of residents commute by bike to work.
U.S. Secretary of Transportation Ray LaHood drew cheers from the cycling world in March when he blogged that the administration was "integrating the needs of bicyclists in federally-funded road projects" and advising state departments of transportation to treat biking and walking "as equals with other transportation modes."
He just thinks the project to add them to a five-block stretch of Hillsborough Street in Raleigh, North Carolina, is folly -- and dangerous.
The city, working with the state, has decided to redo the four-lane road, and when the project is done, there will be two lanes for cars, a center median and bike lanes on each side.
Ritchey is worried that distracted college students won't be on the lookout for bikers and someone will get hurt when a car door opens at the wrong time or someone texting will have an accident (he's seen that twice with cars).
He said that although some Hillsborough Street business owners might be concerned about losing money because of less car traffic, the opposite is likely to happen.
Although opponents say the money is better spent on other road projects, cycling advocates say the lanes are needed to make the roads safer and less congested.
"In choosing any kind of [project], the first thing is what is the connection to the system, then what is the characteristic of the road and then how do we need to provide for the cyclist."
"I've had one person honk at me and one person tell me to move over to the right," she said of her two years in the city.