(CNN) -- For 70 years, survivors of the December 7, 1941, attack on Pearl Harbor have captivated listeners with their firsthand accounts, recalling buddies who died in their arms or the glasses worn by a low-flying Japanese pilot.
"We don't like to see it happen," said George Bennett, 87, the organization's national secretary and a Pearl Harbor survivor.
The Sons and Daughters of Pearl Harbor Survivors, with about 20 chapters, is helping to "carry on the legacy left to us," said national president Louella Large, whose father served at the U.S. Army's Schofield Barracks during the attack.
No Japanese military veterans of the attack are able to be on hand for ceremonies honoring U.S. dead at the World War II Valor in the Pacific National Monument.
Among others traveling to Hawaii are families of two servicemen who died in the past two years.
Soucy's children also will spread ashes belonging to their father and mother, Peggy, at St. Andrew's Episcopal Cathedral in Honolulu, where the pair were married in January 1945.
Historians say the passage of time is allowing for a broader, more objective look at the attack.
In recent years, interpretation also has shifted its focus "from engagement to peace," with recognition that both sides fought a "savage war," said Daniel A. Martinez, chief historian at the WWII Valor in the Pacific National Monument.
Soucy swam 200 yards to shore from the sinking vessel and was quickly recruited, because of his medical training, to help treat the injured.
The family will take part in the sunset ceremony, accompanied by full military honors, Tuesday at the USS Utah memorial.
He leaves Monday to make the trip to Hawaii, where he had been assigned to a squadron of PBY-3 aircraft at Ford Island.
He and others worked to put out a fire on a hangar roof, but eventually were ordered to get down.
In San Diego, Stu Hedley, 90, said fewer Pearl Harbor survivors are available in Southern California to give talks to groups or schools.
Hedley, the head of a local survivors chapter, will take part in a December 7 program in San Diego on the USS Midway carrier.
President Franklin D. Roosevelt wanted a "war economy ... and his idea was to let them fire the first shot," said the Navy veteran.
"The other admonition is learn to live with one another," he said.
Hedley is concerned about how little many Americans know about Pearl Harbor.
Harry M. Cross, was in an artillery unit at Schofield Barracks and got a close-up view of a Japanese pilot strafing U.S. troops.
Though Large is concerned about what young people know about Pearl Harbor and its role in bringing the United States into World War II, she has experienced good moments during her efforts to spread the word.
The boy said, 'I wanted to thank you for protecting our freedom.'"