During a televised address earlier Wednesday Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki declared an amnesty for all Sunni tribesmen who fought against the government, with the exception of those involved in the killing of Iraqi forces.
After much anticipation over how it would address the country's turmoil, Iraq's new parliament on Tuesday postponed its first session until next week, citing a lack of a quorum.
Al-Maliki and his Shiite-dominated government have been under pressure from Western and Arab diplomats to be more inclusive of members of Iraq's Sunni minority, who say they have been marginalized and cut out of the political process by the government.
The delivery brought to 10 the number of war planes Russia has delivered so far and the ministry said it is expecting a total of 25 under a contract agreed to by Moscow and Baghdad.
He thanked Iraq's top Shiite cleric, Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani, for his call for volunteers to pick up arms to defend the country against ISIS and said a new government department would handle their mobilization.
He also strongly rejected the Kurdish regional government's effective annexation of the disputed oil-rich city of Kirkuk and other areas in northern Iraq, saying it was unacceptable.
Emboldened by the weakened Iraqi government's struggle to mount an effective response to their advance, ISIS extremists declared over the weekend that they had set up a caliphate -- or Islamic state -- spanning large areas of Iraq and Syria.
The official says 300 American troops there now, along with several Apache helicopters, could not on their own secure the airport, crucial if an evacuation was needed, and it would require the Iraqis to devote a large number of their troops to the effort.
In Salaheddin province, Iraqi forces have secured all the roads leading to the city of Tikrit, Atta said, and have retaken control of a military base formerly known as Camp Speicher on the outskirts the city, the hometown of ex-leader Saddam Hussein.
In unrelated violence, at least three people were killed Tuesday night when Iraqi security forces clashed with supporters of a radical Shiite cleric, police and health officials said.
The aircraft again hovered over the area Wednesday, as the city was placed on high alert and the streets remained empty of civilians.
They threw stones and set fire to a building at the consulate.
CNN's Hamdi Alkhshali, Diane Ruggiero and Holly Yan contributed to this report.