Masked men drag the bloodied body of a man across a public square, and tie it to a make-shift cross on a metal pole.
"What they are conveying is those who oppose ISIS rule oppose God's rule, and those who are enemies of ISIS are enemies of God and deserve the highest form of punishment possible," says Abbas Barzegar, assistant professor of Islamic studies at Georgia State University.
"It has become a standard feature of fringe Islamist groups to revive these outdated practices in an effort to bring back what they believe is authentic."
All three men in Raqqa were shot in the head prior to being affixed to crosses.
According to a set of rules issued to Raqqa's Christian minority, members of the faith must pay a special tax to the militants and may not expose crosses, repair churches, or recite prayers in the presence of Muslims, the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights reported in February.
After nearly a year under the repression of ISIS, Abu Ibrahim and about 20 other activists formed a campaign in April that they called "Raqqa is Being Slaughtered Silently" to push the vigilante group out of their hometown.
It is true this is dangerous and we have received more than one death threat, but we are relying on the popularity of our Facebook page as protection," Abu Ibrahim told CNN via a choppy Skype connection.
Earlier this year, U.N. High Commissioner for Human Rights Navi Pillay said reported mass executions in Raqqa may amount to war crimes, and in a separate report issued last month, her office documented torture and mistreatment, including repeated beatings, of prisoners at schools and hospitals controlled by ISIS.
After nearly every Friday prayer, a few of these prisoners appear in a public roundabout where dozens of onlookers stand by as charges are hurriedly read and the sentences against the accused carried out, ranging from lashes to executions.
ISIS's military offensive against even its former allies and its savage form of justice led the central al Qaeda command to disown its affiliate earlier this year, but the group's leader, Abu Bakr al Baghdadi, vowed to remain in Syria and fight all who oppose him, even fellow jihadists.