Comic book franchises will be flying by us faster than a speeding bullet this year, from a reboot of the Superman series (replacing Brandon Routh from "Superman Returns" with Henry Cavill for "Man of Steel" June 14) to the set-in-Japan "The Wolverine" July 26 to "Thor: The Dark World" November 8.
The stakes are more personal for Stark this time out, and although comic book fans will recognize the classic characters, Stark's got new on-screen villains to contend with such as Eric Savin/Coldblood, played by James Badge Dale.
"I think it's such a great ensemble piece that I would hope that our roles are the same as they were the first time around," Carell said.
Then "The Great Gatsby" had its release date shuffled from December 2012 to May 10, 2013, curtailing potential Oscar nominations this time around (although the trailers still look promising).
With no more "Harry Potter" or "Twilight," movie studios have been scrambling to create new teen-oriented franchises, and only "The Hunger Games" has caught fire so far.
But hot on the heels of "Catching Fire" are some worthy contenders, including boy-centric "Ender's Game" (out November 1), "The Mortal Instruments: City of Bones" (out August 23), and the first of the Caster Chronicles books to be adapted, "Beautiful Creatures" (out February 13).
The first nine minutes of "Star Trek Into Darkness," out May 17, are already showing in select theaters, which has amped up Trekkie speculation about plot points: Could this be a contemporary "Wrath of Khan?"
Reports from early test screenings suggest the film, out October 18, is gorgeous and awe-inspiring, but also divisive along the lines of "The Tree of Life."
And Spike Lee's American remake of the South Korean thriller "Oldboy," out October 11, stars Josh Brolin as an executive who has been mysteriously confined for years and is now freed, and sets out to find out who stole his life.
Smaug will be the first performance-captured dragon, and thanks to advancements in technology, we should be able to see more emotion and musculature in his face in the same manner in which Gollum was improved for "The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey," only on a much bigger scale.
The movie has been getting rave reviews on the festival circuit, even if Gosling's role as a motorcycle stunt rider who resorts to bank robbery sounds like a rehash of what he did in "Drive."
In "This Is The End," an unspecified global cataclysm wipes out many famous actors playing themselves (including Michael Cera), so Rogen and friends hole up at James Franco's house and try to ride it out.
Then, in the bound-to-be-self-referencing "World's End," Simon Pegg, Nick Frost and friends try to do a pub crawl on their last night alive.
"Elysium" (starring Matt Damon, out March 1), "Oblivion" (starring Tom Cruise, out April 19), and "After Earth" (starring Will Smith, out June 7) share common themes, but only the first two seem to blame rampant corporatization and wealth discrepancies instead of nature.