After all, it had assembled experts renowned in the field, including forensic pathologist Cyril Wecht and investigator Josiah "Tink" Thompson ("who did the original bullet work").
"There's nothing in the movie that I would go back on," he said.
Instead of Oswald as a shooter acting alone, a number of direct and indirect co-conspirators at the highest levels of government are posited in "JFK."
If people knew about those loopholes, Stone said, the single-shooter theory and the "magic bullet" theory "fall apart, if anybody in their right mind looks at it," Stone said.
One such eyewitness, a Parkland Hospital surgeon who spoke at the conference, has become vocal about the wounds to Kennedy's head.
"My best answer to people who would criticize anything we say in the 'JFK' movie is to look at Chapter Six of 'Untold History,' 'JFK: To the Brink,' to understand the man, and the big picture of events," Stone said.
"It was certainly a reassertion of policies that existed after WWII," and even after the decline of the Soviet Union ("the reason for the national security state"), the policies continue and "even accelerate, to where we are now.
Because "JFK" was "such a controversial film, Stone said most of the extended Kennedy clan "wanted to stay away from it.
"I think conspiracies go on all the time," Stone said.
But ask him about non-JFK conspiracies of recent times, and he hesitates.
But the biggest conspiracy of all for me is the one I grew up under, which was sprouted by my father, a Republican conservative, and the entire establishment of this country, which was, 'Hey, the Chinese and the Russians are in a conspiracy to take over the world!'
And he sold that conspiracy idea to all these big-shot news organizations.
Although Stone entertained the conspiracy talk with the anniversary and reissues, he did note that the one story about himself that he'd like to see die is the one that makes him out to be the go-to conspiracy guy.
For one thing, the film he had hoped to make but went to someone else was "Evita."