Aides to Perry, who allowed Willingham's execution to go forward, started off with general questions about how things were going at the commission, a relatively new agency, Bassett said.
But then they started asking about Willingham, questioning whether the commission's review of the evidence in his case was beyond its legal powers.
For Bassett, an Austin defense lawyer, it's the culmination of what he now calls a methodical campaign to shut down an investigation that might embarrass Perry.
Perry's campaign dismissed Bassett's accusations Wednesday, repeating the governor's characterization of Willingham as a "monster" who had sent his three young daughters to a fiery death.
Though the shakeup was controversial at the time, it was barely mentioned in Perry's 2010 re-election campaign.
Representatives of the attorney general's office raised no concerns about the Forensic Science Commission's jurisdiction when the panel voted unanimously to take on the Willingham investigation, he said.
"His conviction was reviewed and upheld by multiple levels of state and federal courts, including nine federal courts -- four times by the U.S. Supreme Court alone over the course of more than a decade," deputy press secretary Lucy Nashed said in a written response to questions by CNN.
In Willingham's case, Perry's office says the governor was briefed on a last-minute filing by Austin-based fire science expert Gerald Hurst that found the deadly blaze was likely not arson, but he refused to grant a stay of execution for further investigation.
Experiments conducted during that period showed burn patterns once thought to show multiple points of origin -- another possible indicator of arson -- also appear when the intense heat of even an accidental blaze radiates downward and sets items like furniture and carpet afire.
Stephen Saloom, the group's policy director, told CNN that the investigation should go forward for the sake of hundreds of other prisoners now serving time for arson, some of whom also may have been convicted based on outdated fire science.