Fifty years ago, they lined the street just down from his small Singapore clinic.
Khoo's gritty memories have been captured as part of a unique, crowdsourced history project that Singapore has commissioned ahead of its 50th anniversary of independence in 2015.
So far, Singaporeans have sent in more than 400,000 memories -- including text, audio, still images, even e-books and video uploaded to the project's website or through a free iPhone app available on iTunes.
Along Singapore's shoreline in the years after independence, fishermen would lay their morning catch on the beach where vendors from the nearby "hawker" stands would buy fish to serve at their small, hot food shacks, recalled Faridah Anom.
That mammoth growth has dramatically transformed Singapore's landscape in just a few short decades, from rows of hardscrabble fishing shacks and bungalow neighborhoods to a towering glass, steel and concrete wonderland of efficiency, wealth and dazzle.
As a volunteer for the Singapore Memory Project, Yaacor and two other students are interviewing seniors along a just a few streets for a small book of interviews titled "Streets We Remember."
But he said it's actually more like a patchwork quilt, something that he and his fellow students hope to capture for the Memory Project.
James Seah was 11 years old in 1961 when a massive fire tore through his neighborhood, Singapore's Bukit Ho Swee squatter settlement, destroying some 2,000 homes.
The Bukit Ho Swee fire left four dead and thousands homeless and is one of those moments in Singapore's history where most people alive at the time remember where they were when they learned about the massive blaze.
Ruth Ann Keh, 17, and two of her fellow students compiled the memories of people living in the Rochor Centre complex that is slated to be torn down in 2016 to make way for a new expressway.
But it is possible to have a sense of neighborhood.
"Inside, my father, uncle and one hired worker would sit on small stools or on the floor, hard at work six days weekly making chilli, tomato and soya sauces, bottling them and tying the bottles expertly with thin rope-like twine in packs of six or 12," Ng wrote in her Singapore Memory Project post.
"There's a lot of longing in all the memories -- longing and attachment to people who are gone, places that are gone," he said.
Singapore is a young country that has packed more history into its few years than most others.
It is bringing texture to the life of the nation, endowing a diverse people with a common identity, a way to look forward together.
It's about random people, too."