Some looked for someone to argue their case that King's dream was passé, no more relevant to today's politics than the race to the moon.
Jim Wallis, speaking at a celebration of King's life near the temporary art installation, acknowledged the "angry discussions about the legacy of this man."
Beck has likened the policies of President Obama's administration to those of Adolf Hitler and calls him a communist.
But King and the civil rights movement provided a moral vision that made it possible for the U.S. to find a way out of those ugly times.
Protesters in Danville, Virginia, got pummeled within an inch of their lives, then subjected to persecution.
Meanwhile, segregationists were pushing constitutional amendments to overturn the principle of "one man, one vote," to give state judges power over the Supreme Court and to give states the power to amend the Constitution without any federal involvement.
Segregationists in Congress even expressed hope that violence would ruin the march and the civil rights movement.
But amid what Garry Wills called America's second Civil War, the civil rights movement embraced the idea that the best way to gain rights was to appeal to everyone's hearts and meet "physical force with soul force," as King put it.
By the time of the March, King understood that America could be changed only by winning over the other side.
One marcher who "won" a train ticket to the March on Washington for his courageous conduct in demonstrations, later remembered the time racist thugs threw beer mugs at marchers in Charleston.
He wanted access to lunch counters and bus stations, the right to vote, equal access to schools, protection against mobs, fair police treatment.
Those words connected the ordinary struggles of the movement -- brutally hard work rewarded with beatings and jail -- with the glorious possibilities of equality.
Move ahead, first into the swinging batons and electric cattle prods and water cannons.
They were not fighting for an earmark or a tax cut, loopholes from an EPA regulations, a Department of Education grant or a Fannie Mae subsidy.
But the existence of this massive movement, with hundreds of thousands of ordinary people willing to put their bodies on the line with nonviolence and even love, created real light in what could have been the darkest of times.
The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Charles Euchner.