With moist eyes and soft voices, former U.S. Rep. Jesse Jackson Jr. and his wife pleaded guilty to federal charges on Wednesday related to years of using campaign funds for personal expenses that included purchases of Michael Jackson memorabilia and a Rolex watch.
At a separate hearing later on Wednesday, former Chicago Alderman Sandra Stevens Jackson, 49, also pleaded guilty in a quavering voice to one count of filing false tax returns in connection with the misuse of her husband's campaign funds.
Jesse Jackson Jr., a Democrat, won re-election to Congress last year despite personal problems, including a mood disorder, that caused him to drop out of sight for months during the campaign.
He exchanged that instead to satisfy his personal whims and extravagant lifestyle," U.S. Attorney Ronald C. Machen Jr. said at a news conference.
The plea showed that Sandra Jackson admits "she'd made some mistakes in judgment regarding expenditures in campaign contributions," said the lawyer, Dan Webb.
Jackson's lawyer, Reid Weingarten, told reporters after the hearing that he would mount a strong legal case for a fair sentence, noting his client is the father of two young children and has the health problems mentioned in court.
"It's hard for me to imagine how they're going to reconcile this scheme as being the byproduct of any recent medical condition," he said.
Last week, prosecutors filed charges against the couple in separate criminal documents used when parties strike plea agreements.
Prosecutors said they would seize and sell many of the pieces of memorabilia and other items Jackson purchased and apply the proceeds to the debt.
But there are references to her as "Co-Conspirator 1," a former consultant and later the manager of Jackson's re-election campaign.
No charges were filed against Jackson, but the House Ethics Committee decided to look into whether Jackson or an associate offered to raise a large amount of money for Blagojevich in exchange for Jackson getting the Senate seat.
The elder Jackson had no comment after Wednesday's hearings, telling reporters, "not today."