Charleston, South Carolina (CNN)Police officers Saturday accompanied the hearse carrying the body of Walter Scott to his South Carolina funeral service, where hundreds of mourners celebrated his life and death as a catalyst for change in America.
"The change will come," he said, bringing to the crowd to its feet.
The death of Scott, who was black, at the hands of a white police officer was "motivated by racial prejudice," Hamilton said.
A slow-moving procession of black cars then made its way to Live Oak Memorial Gardens in Charleston for the private burial.
On Friday night, Scott's open casket was draped with an American flag, and he was in a dark suit for his private visitation in Charleston.
A passer-by caught the shooting on cell phone video, and Officer Michael Slager was swiftly charged with murder.
"Nothing in this video demonstrates that the officer's life or the life of another was threatened," National Urban League President Marc Morial said.
And at least one expert believes a murder charge may not hold up.
Criminal defense attorney Paul Callan said he believes Slager's defense will play up the reported scuffle in arguing that this is not a murder case.
"And that would constitute manslaughter under law, as opposed to murder, and it makes a huge difference in sentencing."
Neither the struggle nor the use of a Taser was captured on video, because Santana started recording shortly after that.
"The cell phone video shot by a bystander confirmed our initial suspicions."
"His wife and mom were tearful but strong, and they were all very grateful for the chance to see him in person, even if separated by a thick pane of glass," the statement said.
Scott apparently tells the officer that he has no insurance on the vehicle, and Slager returns to his car to do paperwork.
U.S. Rep. James Clyburn, D-South Carolina, told reporters outside the service that Scott lost a $35,000-a-year job the first time he was jailed for failing to pay child support.
On Friday afternoon, police met with a man who was in Scott's car, but the passenger's name wasn't in a police report obtained by CNN.
A white banner with a blue star near Scott's casket displayed his favorite NFL team.