The missing link may be the Middle Eastern game Nard or Nardshir, with rules nearly identical to backgammon's and appearances in Babylonian and Persian literature between 300 and 850 A.D.; when the Arabs conquered Persia in the 6th century, the game spread throughout the Muslim world, moving up the Caucasus and into Central Asia as well as Spain, from which it headed further into Europe.
The term "backgammon" itself first appears in 1645, spelled "baggammon," in a letter that also referred to Irish, a simpler predecessor that didn't include doubles or the levels of winning found in the modern game.
The inventor of Reversi remains in dispute; the original patent went to Briton Lewis Waterman in 1888, but he was later accused of theft by James Mollett, whose Annexation game purportedly dated to 1870.
The game was invented by Oscar- and Palme d'Or-winning film director Albert Lamorisse, who was also the author of the children's book "The Red Balloon," adapted from his Academy Award-winning short film of that name.
Diplomacy, tabbed by one gamer friend of mine as "Risk for grown-ups," was developed by Allan Calhamer in the early 1950s but was not published until 1959, when Calhamer decided to print it himself after existing game houses weren't interested.
Part of the brilliance of Diplomacy is that it involves no luck whatsoever.
The game known today as checkers or draughts likely traces back to Alquerque, a game that first appears in a 1283 treatise by Alfonso the Wise, summarizing the state of dice, table, and board games in that era.
Alquerque itself was related to the games known collectively as "merels," from the Latin merellus meaning a token or game piece.
Merels were two-player games where each player is trying to line up three of his pieces in a row, a style of game largely fallen into disuse but recognizable in Tic-Tac-Toe (also known as "noughts and crosses" in the U.K.) and the 1970s staple Connect Four.
If you're interested in Scrabble, I highly recommend Stefan Fatsis' entertaining history of both the game and his own obsessive efforts in the world of competitive Scrabble players, Word Freak.
First commercialized in 1952 by Parker Brothers, who gave it the name "Hex," the underlying game is played on a board of variable size but equal length and width where the game spaces are hexagonal, thus each bordering six adjacent spaces.
TwixT, now out of print, was invented by Alex Randolph in 1962 and published by 3M as part of its "bookshelf games" series a decade later.
TwixT's board is a 24×24 grid of holes, where each player places pegs to connect to his pegs already on the board.
All rights reserved.