"There probably does need to be more careful monitoring, but the bottom line is that parents should not take their children off stimulant medication they're currently on and should not be scared to have their child go on a stimulant if that's what they and their doctors decide is the best thing for their child."
The study, published this week in the American Journal of Psychiatry, is the first to suggest that the stimulants may pose a risk -- albeit remote -- in children without underlying heart problems.
This compared with only two cases of stimulant use, or 0.4 percent, among healthy children who had died in motor vehicle accidents -- a group used to represent a general population of healthy children and adolescents.
Michael Billings, a spokesperson for Novartis, the manufacturer of Ritalin, notes that the drug has been used for more than 50 years and is the most studied ADHD medication.
"We're very sensitive to not wanting this to be some watershed moment where stimulant medications start to get used less and get used inappropriately," she explains.
Although the researchers are confident that the results are not due to any underlying factors -- children with ADHD often have asthma and heart conditions also linked with sudden death, and so these cases were eliminated from the analysis --"one can never be 100 percent sure that there aren't other unknown or undiagnosed issues," says Gould.
"The current study should not change the use of any medications or treatments."
The medication labels also warn that stimulants may raise blood pressure and heart rate, and have been linked with stroke and heart attack in adults.
"If my child was having problems to the extent that a neurologist or psychiatrist was recommending medication, I would want the medication -- although, even though we didn't discuss this specifically in the study, I would want my child to have an EKG."
Future research should focus on new ways to detect which children are most at risk for sudden death when taking stimulants, says Gould, since not all cases seem to be detectable with routine screenings.