Jeb Bush after a convincing victory the night before in the Illinois primary but then saw a top adviser's televised comment provide new ammunition to his trailing rivals in the Republican presidential race.
Rival candidates Rick Santorum and Newt Gingrich, who are vying for conservative support against the more moderate Romney, seized on the comment as indicative of their longstanding criticism that Romney shifts his positions on issues such as health care reform and abortion to suit his political needs.
Romney "will say what he needs to say to win the election before him, and if he has to say something different because it's a different election and a different group of voters, he will say that, too," Santorum said while campaigning in Harvey, Louisiana.
I will be running as a conservative Republican nominee, at that point hopefully, for president.
Romney and take our message of fiscal conservatism and job creation to all voters this fall," Bush, the brother of one Republican former president and son of another, said in a statement.
A spokesman for Gingrich said the Bush endorsement merely demonstrated the Republican establishment's push for Romney instead of a less conventional candidate like the former House speaker.
Romney's Illinois victory showed "the writing's on the wall" for the rest of the field, said CNN analyst Erick Erickson, a longtime Romney critic.
In Lake County, one of the surrounding counties near Chicago, Romney had 56% with all precincts reporting, according to the clerk's office website, and Santorum had 28%.
Romney's campaign trumpeted the Illinois showing as a broad-based triumph, seeking to overcome questions about the candidate's ability to win over the conservative GOP base.
In his concession speech, below a banner that proclaimed "Freedom," he said he was staying in the race to battle a government that he complained was "trying to order us around."
Another Santorum victory in Louisiana would continue the pattern of the race, while a Romney win would signal growing support from the conservative base that he needs to finish off his rivals.
"To defeat Barack Obama, Republicans can't nominate a candidate who relies on outspending his opponents 7-1," Gingrich said.