But five years later, local officials say the city is much safer, and plans are underway to lure foreign tourists and investors back to Juarez.
Mayor Enrique Serrano officially kicked off the campaign, giving what he called an "unprecedented" high-profile tour to regional leaders from the United States and Mexico.
Juarez was at one time the deadliest city in the world."
A spokesman for the Chihuahua state attorney general's office told CNN that at one point, there were days when Juarez had more than 20 killings.
More than 3,000 people were killed in the city just four years ago, but so far this year there have been 89 killings, according to Castaneda -- a dramatic decrease in the violence.
Another factor that may have helped: The turf war between the Juarez and Sinaloa cartels essentially ended, with the Sinaloa cartel claiming victory in the battle for the trafficking route in Juarez.
"For Juarez to be considered a safe city, there's a long way to go," says Sergio Meza, executive director for Plan Estrategico de Juarez, an independent organization that works to improve the city's quality of life.
"In reality, we're progressing from the conditions that were generated by the insecurity.
With more than 40% of Juarez living below the poverty line, according to Plan Estrategico de Juarez, the future of the city will depend on "the people's participation in public matters."
But with the average salary at $20 per week for local workers in the maquiladores, or factories, along the U.S.-Mexico border in Juarez, Meza says more needs to be done.
But in a sign of progress, the U.S. State Department amended its travel warning for the city.
Longtime residents of Juarez and neighboring El Paso may be reluctant to say the wounds of the violent past have altogether healed.
He says the threat of violence is "still a little bit concerning," though that hasn't stopped him in recent weeks from going to Juarez to meet friends for dinner and drinks.
CNNMoney's Octavio Blanco contributed to this report.