Before We Go - Visit an old-fashioned ice cream parlor that's serving up the kitchen sink.
That's how the votes stacked up yesterday when the Senate Finance Committee voted on a health care proposal, and that was enough for the proposal to pass.
Jessica Yellin looks at how we reached this point and where the debate is going from here.
YELLIN: But all eyes were on Senator Olympia Snowe, the one Republican who might vote yes.
YELLIN: This must be the final decision on health care reform, right?
So, you think that's it, one more vote and health care reform is done?
If that passes, then you have two health care bills, one from the House and one from the Senate.
YELLIN: At least for now, the White House can claim a smidge of bipartisan support, and health care inches forward to the next step.
I'm an Asian country that's a little smaller than the state of Texas.
I'm Afghanistan, where the Taliban was removed from power in 2001 by the U.S.-led military forces.
That's a recommendation that many lawmakers, both Democrats and Republicans, are urging President Obama to follow.
To understand why it's believed General Stanley McChrystal wants 40,000 more, you need to look at a map the way military strategists see it.
He feels certain parts of the country are peaceful enough, like the north, or just not as important, like the west, that they don't need the same number of counter-insurgency fighters as these areas do.
LAWRENCE: Kagan says McChrystal would use those troops to turn the tide, so the Taliban doesn't control every other town.
So, when 30,000 American troops surged into Baghdad, that's where one out of every four Iraqis lived.
That might sound like a good thing, but experts are afraid it could make the situation even worse in parts of California.
Well, there is a storm that forecasters are calling the first major one of the season and it is pounding the state with strong winds and heavy rains.
One resident said the whole face of the mountain just came off.
Just some of the work being done by this year's CNN Heroes.
No matter what your ice cream cravings are, chances are that Jaxson's Parlour can meet them, just like it has been for more than half a century.
If you're not hungry before you watch this story, even if you just had lunch, you're gonna be hungry again by the time it's over.
We came up with the kitchen sink because people called their ice cream in kitchen sinks, which were actually in a punch bowl.
We're renowned, you know, in the industry as one of the outstanding ice cream parlors and restaurants in the country today.
UDELL: We've had, you know, down time and good times with the economy.
I'm going to try to be here as long as I can.
We will look forward to seeing you again tomrrow here at CNN Student News.
Bye bye now.