London (CNN) -- Tensions between police and marauding gangs continued into Tuesday in areas of Great Britain, after violence initially sparked by the shooting death of a 29-year-old man in London spread to other parts of the nation.
Disturbances also were reported in the Liverpool area, about 180 miles northwest of London, with police there saying officers had responded to "reports of vehicles on fire and criminal damage" in south Liverpool.
The office of British Prime Minister David Cameron announced that Cameron would return to London Monday night, cutting short a vacation in Italy, for meetings to discuss the violence.
Several hundred people in the center of Peckham in South London threw projectiles -- stones, clay pots and bottles -- with one policeman saying, "they raided the bottle bank," CNN's Dan Rivers reported from the scene.
Large numbers of them, many with faces covered by shirts and bandannas, rushed back and forth with police -- in far fewer numbers -- standing their ground at the entrances to roads, Rivers said.
Officers from Operation Trident -- the Metropolitan Police unit that deals with gun crime in London's black communities -- stopped the cab during an attempted arrest and soon afterward shots were fired, the Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC) said.
The man's family and friends, who blamed police for the death, gathered Saturday night outside the Tottenham police station to protest.
A KFC's windows were smashed, a Foot Locker store was burned, and the main street was closed as police investigators combed through the area looking for evidence.
But let's be clear these acts of sheer criminality across London are nothing to do with this incident and must stop now."
A representative of Johnson said Monday evening that he was cutting short his family holiday in North America to return to London.
"I'm really worried that the social experiment that we're seeing from the Tory-led coalition will lead to scenes akin to something that we see in some of the inner-city areas of America and that's why we need to bring this government down."
Police say they have evidence that some of the rioting was coordinated using social media, including Twitter.
Like the current violence, a protest outside Tottenham Police Station sparked the 1985 conflict.