Also in 2010, three other soldiers "suffered dangerous public mental breakdowns" after returning from Afghanistan, with two of them shot to death by police, according to the Stars and Stripes military newspaper.
Twelve soldiers on the base committed suicide in 2010, according to the base's Northwest Guardian newspaper.
In the wake of Sunday's shootings, he called for a congressional investigation and hearings "into the multiple crises" at the base.
It also reported that year that multiple investigations were under way into the conduct of troops at the base and the adequacy of the mental health and medical care soldiers were receiving upon their return home.
Calvin Gibbs, also assigned to the base, was sentenced to life in military prison after a court-martial convicted him of murdering three Afghan civilians, cutting off pieces of their corpses to keep as "souvenirs" and planting weapons on the bodies to make the men appear to be Taliban fighters killed in battle.
Murder and assault charges against one of those five soldiers were dropped last month, according to the Tacoma News-Tribune newspaper.
"There was a group of soldiers in the 5th Brigade numbering in the single digits who did not behave with honor," Col. Barry Huggins of the 2nd Brigade, 2nd Infantry Division, who supervised the courts-martial, said last month in his first public remarks about the case, according to the News-Tribune.
U.S. Sen. Patty Murray told the Times that the two included Dr. William Keppler, a retired Army officer who leads a forensic psychiatric team responsible for assessing the post-traumatic stress disorder diagnoses of soldiers under consideration for medical retirement.
The investigation was triggered in part by concerns that Madigan doctors involved in the screening process were "unduly influenced by worries about the escalating costs of paying benefits," the Seattle Times reported last week.
A U.S. military official, who asked not to be named because of the pending investigation, said the suspect is in his mid-30s and has served several tours in Iraq, although this was his first deployment to Afghanistan.
The soldier accused in Sunday's deaths remained in U.S. custody on Monday as investigators try to determine his motive, including examining his mental stability and medical history.