The closings of fishing areas have been announced on radio stations these fishermen don't follow, so some have piloted their boats where they shouldn't, which means tickets from the Coast Guard keep coming.
About 6,000 live within a two-mile radius in the neighborhood of New Orleans East -- distinguishing it, the area's priest says, as the greatest concentration of Vietnamese people outside of Vietnam.
Religious texts in English and his native tongue fill the high shelves around him, as do books bearing titles like "Freshwater Crayfish Aquaculture," "The Evolution of Cajun & Creole Cuisine" and Franz Kafka's "The Trial."
"These are proud, active people who contribute to their own livelihood, and now they have to be in lines," asking for handouts, he says.
They worked hard in a familiar industry that didn't require them to master English, often leaving their children to be cared for by older siblings and relatives so they could put in long days.
Today, people wearing the traditional conical straw hats stoop in their cultivated yards or walk along streets with names like Saigon Drive.
The documentary "A Village Called Versailles" -- a reference to the public housing project where they first settled  -- debuted on PBS last month.
A few years later, in 2008, they'd help elect the nation's first Vietnamese-American congressman, Louisiana Republican Anh "Joseph" Cao.
"We had never been exposed to the Vietnamese community," says Thomas, the BP manager of government and public affairs for the lower 48 states and the Gulf of Mexico.
I told him to come in and talk about services," Nguyen says.
The hope, Nguyen and others say, is that grass-roots organizations will sprout up elsewhere to help meet the growing and often different community needs.
She's meeting with fisherfolk to discuss their concerns and recognizes with frustration how unqualified she is to talk to them about fights in their marriages.
She sees families falling behind on mortgages -- for their homes and their boats.
It's a business they took over from her father-in-law, who's standing around the dock in his "Luck of the Irish" T-shirt.
"There's nothing else we can do," she says, refusing to ponder what the family's alternative would be if life doesn't get back to normal, and soon.
"It's an obstacle in life, and we will overcome it.