Jeanne, Amy, Desiree and Nikki were all born into the Tony Alamo Christian Ministry, which, some say, is a cult.
In the 1980s, Alamo, a self-proclaimed prophet of God, had thousands of devoted followers in the United States, including the parents of Jeanne, Amy, Desiree and Nikki.
Jeanne says that when she was 15 years old Alamo, who was 59 years old and her pastor at the time, forced her to become his spiritual wife and have sex with him.
Nikki says she was 15 years old when she realized Alamo planned to make her his next "wife."
A jury found Alamo guilty of transporting minors across state lines with the intent to have sex, and he's now serving 175 years in prison.
Many Americans have never heard of Alamo or his ministry, but Lynn LaRowe, a Texarkana Gazette reporter who's been covering Alamo's story for years, says he began making a name for himself in Los Angeles in the late 1960s.
Alamo reportedly put his wife's dead body in his dining room, and former church members say he made men, women and children pray over her corpse for almost two years.
They were told their prayers would raise Susan from the dead, but when it didn't work, a former member says Alamo blamed his faithful followers.
During a 2008 interview with CNN anchor Rick Sanchez, Alamo ranted against the Catholic Church and argued that the Bible implies that puberty is the age of consent.
Jeanne, Amy, Nikki and Desiree say that when they lived in Alamo's Arkansas compound, he controlled every facet of his followers' lives, and threatened violence and eternal damnation if they dared to disobey him.
Jeanne, Amy, Desiree and Nikki say that when Alamo set his sights on a young girl in his congregation, her parents couldn't say no.
About, I would say, half were minors, and he had had sex with every single one of us," she says.
He laid me on the bed, said the marriage vows, said 'I do,' got a wedding ring, and after that, what actually made it final was, instead of a marriage license, you had sex," Desiree says.
Nikki says that in 1999, after she realized she would become Alamo's next spiritual wife, she took action.
"He sent every person out to look up and down the highways," Nikki says.
Vince and Karen Coker, strangers who lived in the house, took a leap of faith and invited her to stay the night.
Oprah Show producers reached out to Alamo for a statement, but he never responded.
His church and he are open daily to the public, and he is very outspoken, as an open book.
TM & © 2011 Harpo Productions, Inc. All Rights Reserved.