But one thing is certain: A tourist, Husien Shehada, can be seen falling to the ground, shot by a police officer.
Officer Adam Tavss, a 34-year-old former history teacher with three years on the force, was involved in both police shootings, the first in Miami Beach since 2003.
The families of Shehada and McCoy are asking the Justice Department to investigate.
The Miami Beach department's standard operating procedure for use of force, a copy of which was obtained by CNN, states that any officer involved in a fatal shooting must be assigned to administrative duties for at least 72 hours.
On his first day back out on the street, Tavss was involved in the second shooting.
"In the days, weeks and months that follow a shooting, officers may suffer adverse reactions such as sleep interruption, anxiety and depression," a report on the study said.
In some cases, the study found, officers could not recall firing their weapons.
The sheriff in neighboring Broward County uses an interactive video screen that places officers into scenarios they might face while on patrol.
In a color security camera tape released by the Miami Beach Police Department, it appears that one of the brothers was carrying something under his shirt, holding it with his left hand.
"His hands were up for a good two seconds, three seconds," Samer Shehada said.
The witness, Derek Reynolds, was working security at the club that night.
Law enforcement sources say a coat hanger and a bottle were found at the scene, but no gun was found.
When he returned to street patrol, he was one of several officers who responded to a 911 call reporting that that a taxi driver had been pistol-whipped and his cab stolen.
John Contini, an attorney representing the families of both men shot by police, said McCoy was shot nine to 11 times.
"In fairness to the officer, you don't put him on the street, with a gun and a badge, to be in this situation without allowing for a period of decompression -- for the officer's sake, to get some help," Contini said.