"I can't name a player except that Wayne what's-his-name.
("A lot better in person than on TV."
I also lived in Detroit, the self-named "Hockeytown, USA."
I now reside in Los Angeles, current home of the game's Stanley Cup.
I will try to explain it if you've got a couple of minutes to kill.
That's how it looks in the National Hockey League's standings, at least.
As a reward for extending a game to overtime, a team is given a bonus point by the NHL.
So, even if you lose a game in extra time -- as the Blackhawks have -- you didn't "lose."
If you are into pucks, you might be aware that the Blackhawks put together a pretty cool 30-game streak over a span of two seasons without being defeated in three 20-minute periods.
On national TV's sports news, the two smokin'-hot teams have been basketball's Miami Heat (beating almost everybody they play) and hockey's Blackhawks (kinda sorta technically not losing to anybody they play).
One of them is Jonathan Toews, which is pronounced "Taves," not toes, not tweeze.
From the time tenor Jim Cornelison operatically belts out our national anthem (or Canada's) to the times they pump up the volume to "Chelsea Dagger" by the Fratellis to celebrate a Blackhawk goal, a home game at the United Center is usually loud, usually SRO and usually bigger than Bieber and Beyonce rolled into one.
I checked with Jay Blunk to find out just how big things there are.
The NHL announced that Jonathan Toews' jersey sales were the number one-selling jersey in the country for the month of February.
You see, it wasn't so long ago my boyhood favorites the Blackhawks were skating on (insert "thin ice" cliche here).
ESPN the Magazine ranked it 119th of 120 franchises in all of sports, in terms of ownership, fan relations, players, coaching, intangibles such as "bang for your buck," ahead of only the Houston Texans, a new pro football team with zero dark history.
On the nightly news, sportscasters gave time to highlights from games of the Chicago Wolves, a minor-league team, almost as much as they did the Blackhawks.
I wasn't just familiar with old-time hockey names such as Bobby Hull.
So you can see, almost as exciting as winning 2010's Stanley Cup was, why the 2013 superstart of the Blackhawks is a sight to behold.
She didn't want One Direction or Lady Gaga.
The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Mike Downey.