But unlike villagers who might gather like this in many other parts of the world, these men had strange company at their customary get-together.
They were living in North Waziristan, one of Pakistan's thinly governed tribal areas bordering Afghanistan and a hotbed of militancy.
Ahsan's account of the attack in the village of Zowi Sidgi in July 2012, along with those of other witnesses and victims' relatives, form part of a report released Tuesday by Amnesty International titled "'Will I Be Next?'
"Amnesty International is seriously concerned that these and other strikes have resulted in unlawful killings that may constitute extrajudicial executions or war crimes," the report said.
Made public the day before Pakistani Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif is due to meet U.S. President Barack Obama in Washington, the report calls for a series of measures to bring the drone program in line with international law.
"The government of Pakistan believes drone strikes are against international law and the sovereignty of Pakistan," Chaudhry told CNN.
Adding to the pressure, Human Rights Watch also released a report on U.S. drone attacks Tuesday -- this one focusing on Yemen.
"To the extent these reports claim that the U.S. has acted contrary to international law we would strongly disagree," he said at a press briefing Tuesday.
The U.S. government has said strikes by the unmanned aircraft are a necessary part of the fight against militant groups.
Both reports describe the climate of fear created by the drones in Pakistan and Yemen, and the polarizing effect the attacks are having on local populations.
More broadly, Amnesty warned that the American government may be setting a troubling standard in its use of drones that other countries could follow.
"U.S. policy and practice on targeted killings and drones are not only of concern in their own right: they also set a dangerous precedent that other states may seek to exploit to avoid responsibility for their own unlawful killings," the report said.