(CNN) -- Russia approved the use of military force in Ukraine on Saturday, despite warnings of consequences from the West, and Ukraine responded by saying any invasion into its territory would be illegitimate.
Eastern Ukraine and the Crimea have closer ties to Russia, while Western Ukraine is more friendly with Europe.
On Saturday, the Kremlin issued a statement that Russian President Vladimir Putin told U.S. President Barack Obama that Russia approved military action in Ukraine because it "reserves the right to defend its interests and the Russian-speaking people who live there."
He insisted he was still the boss and that he wants nothing more than to lead his country to peace, harmony and prosperity.
They've also said that any invasion would be illegitimate, a response echoed by the United States, which has told Russia to respect Ukraine's sovereignty.
Several Republican leaders in Congress have called on the President to take a tougher stand.
Christopher Hill, former U.S. ambassador to South Korea, Macedonia, Iraq and Poland, says imposing sanctions also raises the risk of alienating a superpower.
For a year, Yanukovych insisted he was intent on signing a historical political and trade agreement with the European Union.
But on November 21, he decided to suspend talks with the EU.
Russia threatened its much smaller neighbor with trade sanctions and steep gas bills if Ukraine forged ahead.
Yanukovych also was facing a key EU demand that he was unwilling to meet: Free former Prime Minister Yulia Tymoshenko, his bitter political opponent.
Her supporters say she needs to travel abroad for medical treatment.
The best known figure is Vitali Klitschko.
Klitschko heads the Ukrainian Democratic Alliance for Reforms party.
In a way that inflamed passions further.
This sparked concerns it could be used to put down demonstrations and deny people the right to free speech -- and clashes soon escalated.
Amid intense pressure, deputies loyal to Yanukovych backtracked and overturned it.
The protesters want to see a change in the government's overall power structure.
He also offered Klitschko the post of deputy prime minister on humanitarian issues.
The concessions weren't enough to satisfy them.
The opposition, in turn, blamed the government.
With Russian troops rumored to be preparing for hostilities in the Crimea, the future of the region and the resulting effect on U.S.-Russian relations appears shaky.