Lausanne, Switzerland (CNN)A roller-coaster series of talks wrapped up Thursday in Lausanne as a group of world powers known as the P5+1 reached a framework agreement with Iran over the country's nuclear program.
Over the course of the eight-day round of talks, negotiators, their delegations, their security details and reporters were confined primarily to the immediate area around the five-star Beau-Rivage Palace Hotel, which played host to the negotiations.
Coco Chanel famously lived there in the late 1940s and early 1950s, and even had her dog buried on the hotel grounds, some reports say.
That sentiment was echoed by Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif even as the talks were still going on.
Over the past 18 months since talks began, Zarif said, negotiators have "developed personal respect" for one another, even though serious mistrust still exists between Iran and the Western powers.
And Zarif took several lakeside walks with advisers and security personnel, perhaps just hoping to take in the view, but certainly not making any effort to bypass the area where television cameras were staked out around the clock.
Many journalists found refuge in the more comfortable downstairs bar, a shorter walk from the cameras and satellite trucks used around the clock by television reporters on a rolling deadline.
There was a sense of urgency, both before and after the initial March 31 deadline passed, to reach a final understanding so the foreign ministers could leave Switzerland ahead of other time commitments, not to mention the Easter holiday.
But perhaps the most difficult night for negotiators was between Wednesday and Thursday, just before the final sticking points were resolved for a deal.
"It went from 9 -- about 9 in the evening until 6 in the morning when we all decided we'd reached a couple of roadblocks, didn't know whether we'd be able to get past them, and we were all utterly, utterly exhausted."
It was first sent out by the European delegation, which spread the word to its traveling press corps even as negotiators were still meeting.
By midday Friday, the delegations had left Lausanne, along with most of the media, returning the scenic Swiss city to its more tranquil pace.