Her patient, a man who contracted the virus in Africa, was in isolation at the Dallas hospital where she worked.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said Sunday there was a breach in protocol in Texas, but officials haven't elaborated on what that breach was.
CDC Director Dr. Tom Frieden has said the agency is considering several possibilities as to how that breach may have happened, including whether the infection was spread when the protective equipment was removed or when the patient, Liberian national Thomas Eric Duncan, received kidney dialysis or respiratory intubation.
CNN Senior Medical Correspondent Elizabeth Cohen said precautions among health care workers can actually go overboard sometimes.
That's because others who provided care to Duncan could have had the same kind of breach as the infected nurse.
The official who has direct knowledge of the Texas case told CNN that health authorities will make daily visits to dozens of Dallas health care workers who treated Duncan between September 28 and October 8 at Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital.
"I think it needs to be put into context that ... you can't make an extrapolation that this is now a danger more so to the American people," said Dr. Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases.
Of the thousands of hospitals in the United States, only four have been training for years to deal with highly infectious diseases like Ebola: Emory University Hospital in Atlanta, The Nebraska Medical Center, the National Institutes of Health in Maryland, and Rocky Mountain Laboratories in Montana.
"They have the management, the processes, the implementation in place that if an Ebola patient comes in, just right away they know what to do," said Gavin MacGregor-Skinner, who teaches public health preparedness at Penn State University.
And 85% said their hospital hasn't provided education on Ebola where the nurses can interact and ask questions.
"The time to act is long overdue," she said.