They assured us it was the quickest way out of town, but I was anxious because we had just three and a half hours to reach Kherson where we'd be joining the 43 observers from the Organization For Security and Cooperation (OSCE) international observer team as they attempted to cross into Crimea.
They would not wait for a late television crew, even if we had been given exclusive access to their convoy.
The OSCE delegates we were travelling with were not carrying weapons and the Crimean authorities had made it clear they regarded any attempts by the OSCE to enter the peninsula as a provocation.
At first our convoy was met with celebratory scenes of people waving Ukrainian flags but the atmosphere changed further down the road as we approached the Chongar roadblock.
While the armed guards looked threatening, they were remarkably calm as they faced not only repeated demands from the OSCE observers but were taunted by pro-Ukrainian protesters who had followed our convoy.
For two hours, the OSCE officials repeatedly pressed their case, insisting they had a right to enter Crimea, but eventually they decided their efforts were futile.
The delegates turned their convoy around and headed back to Kherson to assess their next move.
Up ahead, we could see gunfire smoke near a car waiting to pass from Crimea into Ukraine.
As we passed the white sedan that had been shot at, we could see that no one in the vehicle was hurt, but the front tire had been shot out.
A road trip would mean at least 10 hours of driving with no guarantee we would get through the checkpoints set up by pro-Russian forces between the Crimean peninsula and Ukrainian mainland.
So we boarded the Sevastopol-Donetsk express at 7.55 p.m. and immediately negotiated our way into first class to accommodate the 12 bags of camera equipment and personal luggage that we'd been dragging around the countryside from Kiev, to Odessa, to Simferopol and Sevastopol for the past seven days.
The heating was turned up to asteroid temperature and our kindly conductor woke us at 2 am to fetch her cigarettes that she'd left in the cabin.
We are now all proud owners of these small glowing souvenirs of a journey that may have left us parched from the heat, but which gave us one of the few remaining routes out of Crimea.