Sandra Giustina is rolled into surgery to correct her atrial fibrillation at Max Hospital in New Dehli, India.
Giustina is just one of millions around the world journeying outside their native land for medical treatment, a phenomenon known as "medical tourism."
"Medical care in countries such as India, Thailand and Singapore can cost as little as 10 percent of the cost of comparable care in the United States," the report found.
Patients are greeted by a company representative at the airport in the country where they've chosen to be treated; a 24-hour personal "patient concierge" is also provided, a level of service that's standard among many of the top medical travel planning companies.
"He came to the hospital every day, gave us his personal [telephone] number and after my operation, he arranged private tours of India."
Some Canadians and Europeans said they chose to travel aboard, despite having national health plans, because they are tired of waiting -- sometimes years -- for treatment.
CNN spent time at Max Healthcare in New Delhi and saw operating rooms similar to those in many U.S. hospitals.
If fact, Max's neurosurgery room had an inter-operative MRI scanner, which is technology hardly seen at hospitals in the United States.
Max neurosurgeon Dr. Ajaya Jha said the hospital can provide high-quality care at low prices because the staff work hard to cut waste.
"In the U.S. people are making careers out of carrying laptops and documenting things that are not really useful in the long term for the patient."
"I've found that industry voices tend to crowd out those of us who are more cautious about the legal risks," said Nathan Cortez, assistant law professor at Southern Methodist University, who is conducting a case study investigating what legal recourse patients have outside America.
"Some countries limit patient access to medical records so they can't really learn what happened during the surgery.
"What really helped me feel good about the process was that my doctor in the U.S. spoke to the cardiologist in India prior to my trip," said Giustina.
Just weeks from returning from abroad, Giustina says she has only one regret, "I shouldn't have waited so long!