(CNN) -- Federal terrorism charges against Boston Marathon bombings suspect Dzhokar Tsarnaev could be filed soon, even as he remains hospitalized, a Justice Department official told CNN on Saturday.
"Why did these young men who grew up and studied here as part of our communities and our country resort to such violence?
Ordinarily at an arraignment, the suspect is provided a lawyer, and the defense and prosecution try to make a case for whether he should be released on bail.
After the charges are filed, the Federal Public Defender Office in Boston will be appointed to represent Tsarnaev, according to Miriam Conrad, the federal public defender for the Massachusetts district.
They urged that Tsarnaev be held as an "enemy combatant," a designation that allows a suspect to be questioned without a lawyer and without being informed of his Miranda rights.
"I am not aware of any evidence so far that the Boston suspect is part of any organized group, let alone al Qaeda, the Taliban, or one of their affiliates -- the only organizations whose members are subject to detention under the Authorization for Use of Military Force, as it has been consistently interpreted by all three branches of our government," he said.
To hold the suspect as an enemy combatant under these circumstances would be contrary to our laws and may even jeopardize our efforts to prosecute him for his crimes."
Dershowitz also said statements made by police in Boston seems to contradict the government's reasons for invoking the public safety exception.
"You would have to know the internals of what they have before you can assess whether there is a sensible invocation or not," Giuliani said.
Two key Republicans on the House Homeland Security Committee -- Rep. Mike McCaul of Texas, the panel's chairman; and Rep. Peter King of New York -- will press the Obama administration for details about the FBI's questioning of Tamerlan Tsarnaev, according to a GOP congressional source.
"If he says my intent was to please my brother, they could raise the question of federal jurisdiction," Dershowitz said.
There's another big question: The National Defense Authorization Act of 2012 requires temporary military custody of certain terrorist suspects, but Dzhokar Tsarnaev is a U.S. citizen, and the act doesn't apply to Americans.