UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: We're seniors at Tulare Union High School, and you're watching....
CARL AZUZ, CNN STUDENT NEWS ANCHOR: Want to thank my seniors for that very energetic introduction.
This is the compromise that President Obama and Republican leaders came up with that would extend a series of tax cuts for another two years.
The lawsuit, which accuses the companies of failing to prevent or control the spill, is one of nearly 80 suits that are all being combined together.
He said the goal was to find ways to boost the economy and increase hiring.
One CEO who was at the meeting said he hoped it would provide the opportunity to figure out some plans to help the economy.
The Dartmouth was one of the ships involved in the Boston Tea Party.
The British parliament was furious about the Boston Tea Party and set up more laws in Boston.
Another three seconds on the clock -- GO!
TIME is owned by Time Warner, the same company that owns CNN.
If Facebook was a country, it would be the third largest country on the planet.
I talked with some Atlanta-area teens and their parents recently about how much privacy they expect to have when they log on.
ADAM VRTIS, STUDENT: But that's normally from someone that's given my number to someone else, not that I approved it.
It's the world wide web; everyone can get to it.
But when you're posting something that everyone can look at, I'm going to look at it also.
And so, I sometimes talk about situations that I've encountered at work and hoping that maybe something would be learned from those as well.
Tomeka, I hear you're focusing on the investigative side of journalism today.
AMBER LYON, CNN CORRESPONDENT: The reason I love being a journalist is that you can really make a huge difference in society.
Investigative is more like, we find one issue and maybe spend sometimes an entire year looking into it and getting down to the bottom of it.
My whole goal with Backpack Reporters is to be able to bring them on stories with us.
A lesson to everybody, whether you're a journalist or any other type of career, is be willing to take risks.
And teachers, check out the CNN Teachers' Lounge and share how you address careers in your classrooms.
Misty's owner has to provide the proof, and that includes the seven years before he adopted her.
Hey, at least we didn't make a joke about an old dog needing to walk with a cane-ine.