Rick Perry and others are lashing out at President Barack Obama's decision not to tour border facilities overwhelmed by a flood of undocumented children, saying the U.S. leader needs to see with his own eyes what both sides agree is a humanitarian crisis.
Both Republicans and the White House have described the crush of Central American children as a humanitarian crisis, but Obama said Wednesday that visiting facilities where the children are processed and detained would be little more than a photo opportunity.
Bush opted instead to fly over the coast in Air Force One, resulting in a famous picture of the President peering down at the devastation from his jet.
U.S. Rep. Henry Cuellar, D-Texas, said on CNN's "New Day" that it's important for Obama to see what the children are going through.
The kids that I've talked to, little innocent little boys and girls that have come across and have traveled over 1,000 miles, that one-third of the girls have been abused and raped on the way up here," he said.
Many have surrendered themselves to U.S. Customs and Border Protection officers on the belief they will be allowed to stay in the country, and officials have struggled to house the children amid a staggering backlog of immigration cases.
Critics, however, say the administration invited the problem by halting deportations of some young immigrants who arrived illegally in past years.
Republicans have called for the repeal of a 2008 law signed by President George W. Bush that requires deportation hearings before sending back children from countries that do not border the United States.
Another $300 million would go to help Mexico and Central American governments counter claims by smugglers to desperate parents that U.S. officials won't send their children back.
Perry said lawmakers aren't going to back Obama's funding request if the government doesn't act to stop policies they see as encouraging children to show up at the border.
And so why wouldn't we go ahead and pass the permanent solution, or at least a longer-term solution?"
Democrats want to keep the law intact to ensure that children who deserve asylum receive a full hearing.