By 2017, business-to-consumer e-commerce in China is predicted to double its share and reach 46% of the total online sale, according to the China Internet Network Information Center.
The rising incomes of its massive population pave the foundation for a growing user base and this population's density and residential infrastructure allow for efficient logistics.
China's Internet user penetration is barely 43% compared to the United States, which is near 80%, and its online shopping penetration is less than 40% of its Internet user base, about half of the U.S.
Cash on delivery (COD) is still a popular means of payment due to lack of trust in both online payment systems and the e-commerce providers themselves.
In 2011, Yihaodian started our own last mile delivery alongside 30 third party logistics partnerships, allowing us to cover the entire nation.
In 2012, we launched the Service by Yihaodian (SBY) model to provide our merchants with logistics, marketing, platform, and data services.
The user interface of e-commerce websites in the U.S. are usually very simple and clean with plenty of images, but Chinese shoppers favor crowded websites with information and links all packed into one page providing the impression of a high-energy shopping atmosphere.
Whereas, in the western countries, shoppers are willing to pay considerable fees for expedited delivery, this behavior in China is rare.
Yihaodian received an investment by Walmart in 2011, establishing our strategic partnership.
China's e-commerce industry is experiencing a transition from online shopping as more of a niche market towards online shopping becoming a lifestyle.
Mobile commerce is growing at an even faster rate.
The advancement of Weibo and social networking sites has accelerated this.
On November 11, 2012, China's e-commerce industry single handedly created a nationwide promotions holiday which we referred to as "Single's Day."
Online sales reached 30% of total national retail, a number that will no doubt become the norm in the near future.