(Real Simple) -- Sitting in the newborn intensive care unit five years ago, I could feel my heart pound in my chest and my throat tighten in panic at the sight of my son.
This state of frenzy, it seemed, was the status quo for our boy, and it was only my husband, Adam, and I who were distraught.
The doctors rushed me to the operating room, my frightened husband at my side, and delivered our tiny baby by Cesarean section.
When the doctor came in, she was calm and gentle.
But what I remember is this: She began to describe to us the difficulties that Phoenix had faced in the last eight hours, the hours during which I had slept peacefully, aided by pain medicine and a false sense of security.
Fleetingly, my heart ached for this doctor who had to deliver such news to us, who had to tell us about the permanent damage that this hemorrhage was causing our son.
She gently explained that we could take time to make some decisions about how we would like to proceed with treatment and left us with our son.
As I was lying in my hospital bed in the weeks before Phoenix was born, I had often talked to him.
While he still kicked inside me, I told him that if he needed to let go, if he wasn't strong enough for this life, I could handle it.
While Phoenix still kicked inside me, I told him that if he needed to let go, if he wasn't strong enough for this life, I could handle it.
The truth is, it didn't take long for Adam and me to decide that what we wanted was to keep our son comfortable.
We cried and cried and tried to hold each other, though I was too sore from my own surgery and weeks of bed rest to move into any comfortable position in my husband's arms.
We asked her if we could find a place to sit and rock him, a private place to say our good-byes and hold him tight.
When the nurse brought my baby back into the room, it was the hardest moment of my life.
When the nurse handed him to me for the first time, I fully realized how little, how light he really was.
The nurse stayed close by, and, eventually, she let us know that Phoenix had passed.
In the days and years since his death, I have turned it all over and over in my head.
And only with this distance can I see that, perhaps, he did the best he could for me, too.
For Real Simple's Sixth Annual Life Lessons Essay Contest, readers were asked: What is the bravest thing you have ever done?