Below, the author reveals why Robb had to die, gives his reaction to upset readers and spills the scene's horrifying real-life inspiration.
I've said in many interviews that I like my fiction to be unpredictable.
I killed Ned because everybody thinks he's the hero and that, sure, he's going to get into trouble, but then he'll somehow get out of it.
Since Song of Ice and Fire so often subverts reader expectations and avoids traditional fantasy storytelling structures, should fans have any real hope that this tale will have a happy ending?
So the entire book was done and there was still that one chapter left.
If somebody dies and you just go get more popcorn, it's a superficial experience isn't it?
There's a certain amount of foreboding leading up to it.
Robb has made his peace and you think the worst is over.
And Catelyn has suffered so much and lost so many people around her, and she actually thinks she's lost more than she really has (since she doesn't know for sure that Arya, Bran and Rickon are alive).
She also has the moment there to plead.
There's a certain power to that too.
It's probably the most powerful scene in the books.
You're also ending that relationship with an actor that you have affection for.
And some of my former readers have said their life is hard, their mother is sick, their dog died, and they read fiction to escape.
And you read that certain kind of fiction where the guy will always get the girl and the good guys win and it reaffirms to you that life is fair.
One of my favorite elements of the scene is you introduce this idea of "salt and bread."
We accept that as readers — Okay, in this fantasy world, people don't harm each other once they eat a host's bread and salt in their home.
The Red Wedding is based on a couple real events from Scottish history.
He came to Edinburgh Castle and had a great feast.
They brought out a covered plate and put it in front of the Earl and revealed it was the head of a black boar — the symbol of death.
But the Campbells arose and started butchering every MacDonald they could get their hands on.