Our destination for the day is the DMZ -- or the "heavily fortified" Demilitarized Zone between North and South Korea.
As the tour bus makes its way northward along the "Freedom Highway," the guides brief us on the infiltration tunnels dug by the North Korean army with the intention to covertly invade Seoul and take over South Korea.
A sheltered peace bell, a footbridge that dead-ends into a barbed-wire fence, an exhibition of military vehicles and missiles employed during the war, the trans-Korean "Iron Horse" train stopped dead in its tracks and an abandoned amusement park are just some of the attractions that greet visitors to Paju on their way to the real danger zone.
She proves to be a lively and knowledgeable lady, whose name reflects the well-known acronym used to refer to South Korea's top three universities: Seoul National, Korea and Yonsei.
After a careful passport check, we are instructed to "don't read, just sign" a Visitor's Declaration (later returned to us) stating that "Although incidents are not anticipated, the United Nations Command, the United States of America, and the Republic of Korea cannot guarantee the safety of visitors and may not be held accountable in the event of a hostile enemy act."
The U.S. military's USO (United Service Organizations) also provides tours, as well as the official JSA dress code, which specifies no baggy pants, graffitied T-shirts, among others.
We are led in an orderly single file into one of the small blue U.N. conference rooms that straddles the Military Demarcation Line (MDL), where heated scuffles have been known to break out between delegates of North and South.
As we wait in the lot to transfer back onto our original tour bus, I dare to ask our guide a risque question: What exactly is inside the ROK soldiers' pants?
"They put them in their trouser legs so that one soldier walking sounds like a whole troop marching, to scare the enemy."
As people begin hopping back onto the bus to leave Panmunjom, two ROK soldiers graciously agree to pose with a few tourists who can't get enough of this military field trip.