And for the fourth time in the nation's 56 inauguration ceremonies, there will be poetry -- by someone far less well-known.
She joins three other poets who have read at inaugural ceremonies -- Robert Frost in 1961 for John F. Kennedy's inauguration and Maya Angelou and Miller Williams, who read at Bill Clinton's 1993 and 1997 inaugurations.
Alexander: I think that the fact that President-elect Obama has decided to have a poem in this ceremony is a wonderful affirmation to the power of language, the way in which poetry gives us distilled and mindful and careful language that can both give us a moment of pause, a moment of contemplation and that can also ... look at the world from a slightly different angle.
Alexander: In the community in Hyde Park, he and Mrs. Obama were just people I'd heard about for a long time and heard wonderful things about, and we were of a generation.
... My teaching is incredibly important to me ... helping people see that the study of African-American history and culture is fundamental to understanding this country that we live in.
The civil rights struggle in this country and in the world is not over because we have an African-American president.
The fact that this country has -- with a multiracial coalition -- elected an extraordinary president who is African-American really does feel like just an exquisite moment for us to savor even as we recognize there's still a tremendous amount of work ahead of us.
The larger metaphysical challenge is to think about how to work together in new ways that are, if not post-partisan -- because I don't think there's anything wrong with partisanship per se -- borne of new coalitions.
Also the felicity of art ... the way in which it makes you draw a breath and look at the world in a different way is very useful to the process of thinking through new solutions.
Alexander: I think what I was trying to say is that at the end of the day, demographics doesn't really tell you about how your work is going to be received.
... On the one hand, I have devoted much of my work to African-American culture.
Alexander: They are so excited, and that's of course a lovely thing.
Marvin Gaye, John Coltrane, and also the breadth and accomplishment over a career of Duke Ellington.