The attacks reminded the world once again how brazen the group can be.
Before admitting to the Kenya quarry attack, Al-Shabaab was responsible for the July 2010 suicide bombings in Kampala, Uganda, that killed more than 70 people, including a U.S. citizen, who had gathered at different locations to watch the broadcast of the World Cup Final soccer match.
In 2011, A U.S. official who declined to be identified because of the sensitivity of the information said Al-Shabaab was estimated to control up to 1,000 fighters.
In 2003, a rift erupted between IAIA's old guard -- who were seeking to establish a new political front -- and its younger members, who were seeking to establish fundamental Islamic rule.
That strife led the younger members to ally with a group of Sharia courts -- the Islamic Courts Union (ICU) -- that were seeking to impose order over a landscape marked by feuding warlords in the capital city.
And that move inflamed Al-Shabaab, which attacked Ethiopian forces and gained control of parts of central and southern Somalia, according to a 2011 case study by Rob Wise, who was then with the Counterterrorism Program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies.
Analysts say tension appears to have been growing within Al-Shabaab between Somalis and foreign fighters, several hundred of whom are thought to have entered Somalia in recent years to join the group.
The once-ragtag al Qaeda affiliate has grown into an economic powerhouse, raising tens of millions of dollars in cash from schemes that have involved extortion, illegal taxation and other "fees," according to the 2011 United Nations report.
In 2011, it was generating "between $70 million and $100 million per year, from duties and fees levied at airports and seaports, taxes on goods and services, taxes in kind on domestic produce, 'jihad contributions,' checkpoints and various forms of extortion justified in terms of religious obligation," according to the report from the U.N.
About 258,000 Somalis died in the famine between October 2010 and April 2012, and half the victims were younger than age 5, according to a report from the U.N. Food and Agriculture Organization and the USAID-funded Famine Early Warning Systems Network.
In January 2013, French forces attempted to rescue a French intelligence commando held hostage in Somalia by the group.