The subject of fervent debate in the geekosphere for more than two decades, "Watchmen" finally rolls out in the U.S. and other territories from the first week of March onward.
"Watchmen," which takes place in 1985, is set in a  parallel world where America never lost Vietnam, Russia is about to invade Afghanistan and Richard Nixon still holds power (Carl Bernstein and Bob Woodward were murdered).
But what lifts "Watchmen" above its superhero peers is a complex, multi-layered narrative and depth of characterization that ensured it was the only comic book to make Time's 100 best novels since 1923.
Several planned shoots failed to materialize due to studio fears about the budget (locations include Antarctica and Mars as well as New York) and how the ending might be perceived in a post-9/11 world.
At least six-and-a-half feet tall, with chest-length beard and hair, talon-like rings on his fingers and the skull of a centuries-old Buddhist monk in his study, he resembles Doctor Who as reimagined by Edgar Allan Poe.
The comic-book series "From Hell," in which Moore uses the Jack the Ripper killings as a precursor to 20th-century violence, runs to about 500 pages, including 40-plus pages of footnotes.
Following the $450m-plus taken worldwide by Snyder's "300" (2006)  -- a hyper-stylized take on Frank Miller's ancient Greek suicide-mission -- it was announced that "Watchmen" would be his next project with Warner Bros. Paramount, which abandoned plans for the movie in 2005, took international rights.
Snyder has retained "Watchmen's" 1980s setting and also recruited original artist Gibbons -- who still retains friendship with Moore -- to advise on production design.
So was it Moore who saw "Watchmen" end up in the courts for a case that risked scuppering its release?
After all, successfully mixing pyrotechnics and narrative is how the most satisfying genre features of recent years -- such as Peter Jackson's "Lord Of The Rings" trilogy and Christopher Nolan's "The Dark Knight" -- have found artistic, as well as commercial, favor.
What Alan Moore might think is another issue.