Lisbon, Portugal (CNN) -- Calling it a significant step forward for the alliance and European security, President Obama announced Friday that NATO will develop a missile defense system to safeguard most of Europe and the United States.
NATO Secretary-General Anders Fogh Rasmussen announced Friday that heads of state had agreed to a new mission statement, calling it the alliance's "road map for the next 10 years."
The document, prepared from recommendations made by a panel led by former U.S. Secretary of State Madeleine Albright, sought to build upon NATO's work in Afghanistan to redefine the alliance as a "global" actor that would work with regional partners to combat threats outside Europe.
Saakashvili, whose country's bid to join NATO has been stalled for several years, said that he hoped the alliance's involvement would prompt Russia to withdraw its troops from Georgia.
Obama said Friday that NATO leaders had called passage of the treaty -- which, among other things, would restart mutual nuclear inspections and limit the arsenal in the two countries -- critical to European and global security.
The outcome of the war in Afghanistan is intrinsically tied to the future of the NATO alliance, a new analysis from the RAND Corporation suggested.
Rasmussen has encouraged NATO members to be more agile in order to respond to 21st century threats and to continue to invest in military technology despite the global economic downturn.
"Those are capabilities that deal with ongoing operations in Afghanistan, but also capabilities to deal with 21st century threats, including beefing up our cyberdefenses and embracing the deployment of missile defenses to protect European territory and populations against the growing threat of ballistic missiles."
Obama also will hold a summit with European Union leaders, seeking to reaffirm a partnership with Europe that many feel has gone adrift as the United States expands its partnerships in Asia.
CNN's Adam Levine contributed to this report.