(Global Mail) -- The night Bob Hawke lost the Labor leadership 20-odd years ago, I was a tender recruit to the Canberra press gallery who found myself, fortuitously, marooned at the Prime Minister's office door whilst the Labor caucus was dispatching the occupant.
If the humiliation of that evening's historic rejection winded him, Hawke didn't show it.
Of course, the long contest with Keating had been aggravating to Hawke and sapping for his Government; Keating had effectively launched his challenge late the year before, in 1990, when he contended, in his Plácido Domingo speech, that Australia had never had a great Prime Minister.
It has been an undeclared, subterranean campaign to reinstall Rudd in the Prime Minister's office -- one from which the candidate has, until now, been able to stay aloof.
And in the resulting public imagery, it is not Rudd who is seeking to return to the Prime Minister's office; rather it is a semi-reluctant Rudd who is being ferried along by a group of ministers, MPs and Labor fixers who believe the only way that Labor can win against Tony Abbott and the Coalition at the next election is for Rudd to resume the leadership.
Second, for Rudd to be seen publicly tearing at Gillard's leadership would play to a series of strong negatives -- that Rudd is motivated by revenge, that he has no regard for governance, that he is attacking a woman, that he has a monstrous sense of entitlement.
Filmed at least two years ago in his office, while he was Prime Minister, the video contained Rudd's unusable, profane outtakes, plenty of teeth-gnashing, wild-eyed fury, and blaming others including the "dickheads in the embassy."
Rudd learned of HappyVegemiteKR's You Tube activity early on Saturday evening as he was eating a Thai take-away meal at his Brisbane home with Bruce Hawker, the Sydney-based political strategist who has guided many Labor election campaigns.
Prompted and legitimized by the leaked video, by midnight Saturday Rudd was on Sky News, effectively sending to the Labor Party and Australians a revised CV that set down his qualifications for another shot at the Prime Minister's job.
The Queensland band of brothers -- Rudd, Beattie and Bruce Hawker -- succeeded, finally, in flushing out publicly the Prime Minister's senior ministerial supporters to concede that which they have been careful for weeks not to: Gillard's leadership is under siege from within her own Cabinet and party room.
There are various scenarios but one thing that seems completely implausible is that it's just going to go away and that people will forget about it and move on to another issue.
The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Bernard Lagan and The Global Mail.