CARL AZUZ, CNN STUDENT NEWS ANCHOR: Of course, we will have more on that for you in today's show, but we are getting off the ground in northern Africa.
A ferry that was chartered to take hundreds of U.S. citizens from Libya to Malta was held up for a while yesterday.
But during a speech earlier this week, President Obama said what's going on in that part of the world has nothing to do with outside influences.
The country has lifted a 19-year-old state of emergency, and what that means is that people there have greater freedom of speech and assembly now.
One of the lawmakers said, "I resigned because there's been no respect by the government for human rights."
AZUZ: The space shuttle Discovery has made more trips into space than any other craft.
NASA estimates that every time a shuttle takes off, it costs nearly half a billion dollars.
Now, it was scheduled to come up for a vote yesterday, but only in the State House of Representatives.
AZUZ: Our latest Teachers' Lounge blog asks for your opinions about a controversial budget decision in Detroit.
Willie O'Ree was the first African-American to play in what sports league?
Richelle Carey sat down with the team's four African-Americans to talk about life as a minority pro hockey player.
I would say a total package sport.
It's just me being out there, having fun and enjoying the people around me.
We had an assignment to say what you wanted to be when you grew up.
CAREY: Did anybody try to steer you to something different, because you don't look out on the ice that often and see people of color?
STEWART: I grew up sort of in an urban neighborhood and, you know, a lot of my friends are playing basketball and sports like that.
CAREY: We always hear about hockey as, it's an expensive sport for kids who want to play.
AZUZ: Finally today, with the space shuttle program winding down, we're looking back at the 132 missions that have come before.
Before we launch into the weekend, we thank our fans on Facebook for all of your "likes" at Facebook.com/CNNStudentNews.
I'm Carl Azuz.