He would kind of be like Piglet in the Pooh movies because he would be a little cautious and scared of things, but once he knew the plan and how things worked he would warm up to it and maybe by the end of the movie he might not have to roll up into a ball (and hide).
The 32-year-old from Pasadena, California, recently filed a petition on Change.org asking Disney to make an animated character out of a pangolin, a little-known, scale-covered mammal that's notoriously shy and, to Kit's point, can protect itself from pretty much anything in the wild -- lions, tigers -- by rolling up into a ball.
They're also not conventionally cute, which makes it easier for conservation organizations and the public to write them off as expendable.
I recently went to Vietnam and Indonesia as part of CNN's Change the List project to document the massive illegal trade in endangered pangolin species.
At least 13 other readers also started petitions urging Disney to put a pangolin character in an animated film or short, according to Pulin Modi, a senior campaigner at Change.org.
CNN readers are voting on a name for pangolin P26, which was rescued from the wildlife trade and was recently released back into the wild in Vietnam.
"When you introduce a character in a Disney film the animal suddenly gets more recognition and people start talking about it," said Kit, who is a Disney fan.
"It's like talking to a piece of cheese, you just don't get anywhere," she said of her conversations with her dad about the welfare of endangered animals.
She doesn't think she'll be able to persuade her dad to change, but younger generations may be the ones to save animals like pangolins and rhinos, she said.
Her parents valued animals for their function -- Doom the Doberman's ability to protect their home, their ducks' eggs -- but she saw them as friends.
"I can tell you many Chinese citizens do not support this cruelty, and I believe we can bring wildlife advocates from around the world together to ask Disney to take this simple, fun, positive step to help pangolins."
"It didn't cost me anything but half an hour of my time," she said of the petition.