In this case, it was once-in-a-lifetime Superstorm Sandy, which caused the outspoken Republican governor of New Jersey to declare a state of emergency and seek federal help for widespread devastation.
Instead, he focused his remarks to supporters who donated relief supplies for storm victims on how such efforts contribute to meeting the overall need.
Asked by moderator John King of CNN if disaster relief efforts should be turned over to states, Romney said that "every time you have an occasion to take something from the federal government and send it back to the states, that's the right direction.
King cut in to ask if Romney was referring specifically to disaster relief, a topic in the news at the time following a deadly Joplin, Missouri, tornado, and Romney continued: "We cannot afford to do those things without jeopardizing the future for our kids.
Romney believes that states should be in charge of emergency management in responding to storms and other natural disasters in their jurisdictions," said the statement by spokeswoman Amanda Henneberg.
Craig Fugate, administrator of the emergency management agency, told reporters Tuesday that the agency had $3.6 billion remaining in its disaster relief fund.
Vice President Joe Biden, meanwhile, said Tuesday that the federal response to Sandy was "working like it's supposed to," and he highlighted to reporters in Ohio what he described as unprecedented cooperation between city, state and federal authorities and agencies.
Obama and Democrats argue that entitlement programs such as Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid are vital to the social contract to provide contributing citizens with basic needs, and that government also has a role to play in education and technological development while providing services such as national defense and disaster relief.
In statements Monday and Tuesday on the storm and its aftermath, he emphasized the need for a collective response while also making sure to point out the federal role in relief efforts.
While the president and one of Romney's top supporters will be photographed together responding to disaster, Romney is scheduled to be in Florida for three campaign events.