One is to get this over with," Attorney General Mike DeWine said in a nod to frustration the continued investigation is likely to cause in the city -- a small, down-on-its-luck Ohio River mill town that's been the focus of intense criticism and media coverage for months.
But she added, "We need to stress the importance of helping those in need and to stand up for what is right."
But the emotions inflamed by the case echoed past Sunday's verdict, with sheriff's deputies and state investigators arresting two teenage girls Monday for threatening the victim over Twitter.
"And I should point out that the convening of a grand jury, of course, does not necessarily mean that indictments will be returned or that charges will be filed," he said.
Authorities accused Mays and Richmond of putting their fingers in the girl's vagina while she was too drunk to consent, an act that constitutes rape under Ohio law.
Both Mays and Richmond must undergo treatment and will have to register as sex offenders, Lipps ruled.
One of the tweets that led to Monday's arrests warned that if the poster saw the victim, "it's gone be a homicide."
"But the attorney general had just left the building -- the judge was still in the building -- when I received messages that there's death threats already against the victim."
If there's anybody else there crosses a line and makes a death threat, they're going to have to face the consequences."
The ensuing ire over the case brought national attention and criticism to the city from around the country, leaving city officials struggling to defend the community and residents weary of the media spotlight.
"I'll guarantee that there are crimes very similar to this that occur every Friday night and every Saturday night in communities across this country where you have people, particularly young people, who are drinking too much and a girl is taken advantage of, and a girl is raped," he said.
CNN's Poppy Harlow, Brian Vitagliano, Yon Pomrenze, Matt Smith, Steve Almasy and Chelsea J. Carter contributed to this report.