"Sport has the power to change the world," Nelson Mandela once said -- and the South African prisoner-turned-president also provided perhaps the most eloquent supporting evidence for his claim.
That last sentence was the closest Mandela came to referencing his own role in using sport to unify South Africa, a country that had been separated by skin color and the warped political ideology of apartheid for nearly half a century by the time he became its first black president in 1994.
Despite their readmission in 1992 to international rugby, after years of apartheid-enforced sporting isolation, South Africa used home advantage so well that the debutants reached the World Cup final.
Two hours later, the day's images adopted iconic status as the "Rainbow Nation" beat New Zealand to win the tournament, precipitating widespread celebrations, increased harmony and a mixture of both pride and hope to a South Africa in desperate need of reconciliation.
Nonetheless, Dr. Ashwin Desai, a university lecturer, sociologist and specialist in South Africa's racial history, believes that the impact of the moment was short-lived and began to crumble within a few months of the final.
Yet one of the most celebrated pages in modern race relations would never have been written had Mandela not saved the Springbok emblem, which was labeled "deeply offensive" by the National Sport Council in the mid-1990s because of its use in the racially divisive past.
"I wanted my people to know that I became president sooner because of the sacrifices made by our athletes during the years of the boycott," he replied when asked why he was at a soccer match involving South Africa, rather than a politically themed event, shortly after his inauguration in May 1994.
Despite a personal tragedy on the eve of the finals -- his great-granddaughter Zenani, 13, died in a car crash -- Mandela was ultimately rewarded with a tournament that shone with color, originality and, to widespread surprise outside South Africa, fine organization.
"When he was honored and cheered by the crowd at Johannesburg's Soccer City stadium on 11 July 2010, it was as a man of the people, a man of their hearts, and it was one of the most moving moments I have ever experienced.
What they won't show, however, was that it was Madiba Magic that forged those results and performances; and united a country and its people along the way.
"I have always believed that exercise is a key not only to physical health, but to peace of mind," wrote the once-keen boxer and long-distance runner.
Like the wider world, sport is unlikely to forget Mandela, not just because of the tournaments and stadiums already named in his honor, but primarily for a day in 1995 when the anti-apartheid activist stole the show during the defeat of a team called, ironically enough, the All Blacks.