There's no dramatic music in the background.
With two telephones to his ear, he listened to his wife, Melinda, as she fled into an attic of their Loganville home.
"He's in the bedroom," she told him.
Then he instructed her to do what was fast becoming a realistic possibility.
Otherwise she would have been in trouble and she would have run out of ammunition," said Erich Pratt, director of communications for the Gun Owners of America.
This week, a federal task force led by Vice President Joe Biden is holding talks with private industry groups, the NRA, and legislators -- all to determine the correct balance between the right to self-protection and preventing further mass shootings.
Her husband told sheriff's department investigator's that he took her shooting so that she'd be familiar with the family's guns if she ever had to use one.
On the phone, Donnie Herman calmly instructed his wife about the use of the weapon she had practiced on.
She's shooting him.
He then lost phone contact with his wife and children.
Not realizing she was out of ammunition, she ordered the man to stay on the floor as he bled.
Walton County Sheriff Joe Chapman -- whose office responded to the shooting at the Hermans' home -- said he believes the mother and her two children were in a life-and-death situation and she had no choice but to exercise her constitutional right to self-defense.
The Hermans' story of self-defense is being used by the National Rifle Association and the Gun Owners of America to make their point to the White House and Congress about gun ownership.
Yet it's unclear whether the benefits of having a loaded and readily available gun in one's home outweigh the drawbacks.
Kellermann led research for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in the 1990s which found that people who have guns in their homes are nearly three times more likely to be a victim of homicide and nearly five times more likely to commit suicide.
"I often tell people, 'If you don't think that you have what it takes to take a human life then don't bother buying one.