Four years ago, he ran out of treatment options -- every available form of chemo had been used.
Now, Cossman, 61, is sitting in a doctor's office, ready to undergo a CT scan that will determine if his cancer is being kept in check.
He tries not to think about that as he slides into the giant machine that envelopes his body.
Cossman is one of 16 patients with progressive forms of cancer currently taking part in a study of a developmental drug by the Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Cerulean Pharma.
The test drug is in the second phase of a three-phase process that takes years before the Food and Drug Administration even considers whether to bring the drug to market.
In this case, the chemotherapy drug, known as CRLX101, is placed inside nanoparticles -- tiny particles just slightly bigger than molecules -- that are delivered intravenously every two weeks to patients.
"You want to see how long you can actually hold the disease at bay," Fetzer says.
It takes about nine years for an oncology drug to go through the necessary clinical studies to FDA approval, said Dr. Kenneth Kaitin, director of The Tufts Center for the Study of Drug Development, an independent nonprofit research group.
His doctor diagnosed it as head and neck cancer -- a surprise to Cossman because he's never been a heavy drinker or smoker.
The tumor was eliminated, yet a spot showed up again about a year later.
The chemo would either stop working or the side effects would be more detrimental to my health."
To remain in a trial, tumor growth has to be limited to 20 percent.
In his second study, he developed a tumor on his right arm.
Then, when the CT scan comes back and it shows the tumors are growing, it's really frustrating."
So Cossman entered his fourth study this summer, the trial by Cerulean Pharma.
He has no complaints about what he's been dealt.
He wants others who are suffering to be more proactive -- to ask their doctors about all their options.
On the other end of the line, his doctor delivers the best news he's had in more than a year.
Yet the good news is only temporary.
You have some successes and a lot of failures."