(CNN) -- The "official" night set aside for ghosts and goblins is nearly here, but if you're bewitched by the macabre and the supernatural, there are plenty of places that provide spooky sensations year-round.
The Peoples Mortuary Museum is part of a working mortuary in Marietta, Ohio, and it boasts a collection of classic hearses from past centuries, even a horse-drawn hearse from 1895.
The Famous Endings Funeral Collection in Dover, Ohio, is a must-see for history buffs curious about celebrity deaths.
Novelist Anne Rice was born here and her popular tales often include spirited descriptions of her hometown.
West Africans brought the voodoo way of life to New Orleans in the 1700s, and the religion flourished in the 19th century.
There's also a cornucopia of New Orleans hotels where the paranormal is considered normal, such as the Monteleone, where you can stay in a haunted room or ride an elevator that seems to have a mind of its own.
In 2003, a team of paranormal researchers stayed in the hotel and allegedly confirmed contact with more than a dozen spirits.
If you're there in October, have a glance at the bloodstained manuscript of Henry Timrod.
Known as the poet laureate of the Confederacy, this Charleston native produced passionate prose until his death in 1867.
Various characters and scenes from the legend are said to be based on the people and places of Sleepy Hollow, such as the burial ground at the Old Dutch Church.
The Salem Witch Museum takes visitors back to the summer of 1692 and the infamous trials that resulted in the execution of 20 people accused of devil-inspired activity.
An international witch hunt might lead you to Scotland, where the North Berwick Witch Trials happened in 1590-1592, some 20 miles from the capital of Edinburgh.
Even luxury respects the role of witches and the supernatural: October guests at the prestigious Balmoral Hotel can enjoy the perk of Halloween Afternoon Tea, but the concierge staff says the demand for tours of the eerie and bloodcurdling is high year-round.
From scream parks to corn mazes to haunted homes, sites that evoke ghoulish pleasures are so popular that the Haunted Attraction Association was formed in 2010, to promote the top haunted places around the world, a $300 million industry.