The day included shopping for costumes, dinner at the Medieval Times restaurant and a sleepover at Pyle's waterfront mansion.
• Lexi loved her sister and new baby brother, her classmates, field hockey, lacrosse and ice skating, the family said in a statement Friday.
• Katie loved her family and her new brother, the statement said.
"Having just turned 7, she was loving and thoughtful beyond her years," the statement said.
"Wes was sweet and loving and looked up to his older sister immensely.
He loved all his friends and he especially looked forward to seeing his classmates at school every day.
He treated friends as family and enjoyed long-term friendships from high school.
She loved every animal, especially her rescue dogs, and contributed to numerous animal welfare groups.
On Thursday, two bodies were retrieved from the ruins of the mansion, authorities said.
"On behalf of the Boone and Pyle families, we wish to express our gratitude and appreciation for the love and support being shared with us during this tragic event," the family's statement said.
The Thursday statement confirmed the identities of the six people firefighters and others have been searching for in the ruins of the waterfront home.
Local and federal officials were able to secure the structure and access the foundation of the 16,000-square-foot house Wednesday.
The sheer size of the structure -- and the fact that three-fourths of it had collapsed into the basement, with deep piles of  debris still smoldering -- compounded the search, Anne Arundel County Fire Capt.
Pyle had not been heard from Monday, and his colleagues at ScienceLogic were "hoping for a miracle," CNN affiliate WJLA-TV in Washington reported.
Heavy equipment was brought in to aid in the search for victims and clues, a process that could take days.
The Fire Department said crews had difficulty putting out the fire because the house is secluded, apparently with no fire hydrants on the scene.
Pyle's company biography described him as an industry veteran who held multiple CEO positions, with more than 25 years' experience in information technology infrastructure software and hardware management.
In 1992, the company went public and was sold to Cisco Systems five years later for $4.2 billion, according to the Post.