Manila, the Philippines (CNN) -- After four countries, three formal state dinners, two speeches to American troops and one encounter with a menacing humanoid robot, President Barack Obama flies home Tuesday having completed his long-awaited trip to Asia.
But his stops in all four countries all seemed designed, in part, to send a message to China: "We're on their side."
For the first time since the 1990s, when American bases were closed in the Philippines, the United States will have a substantial military footprint there.
That's exactly the kind of crisis Obama wants to prevent through greater U.S. attention to China's neighbors.
Obama's promise of greater U.S. military cooperation in Asia was largely welcomed in the countries he visited.
"There are still negotiations to be had.
That political opposition makes it all but impossible for Obama to see a new trade deal through Congress before the 2014 midterm elections.
In the coming months, the administration hopes to hammer out a final agreement on Iran's nuclear program, rid Syria of its chemical weapons, and revive Mideast peace talks — all issues that have overshadowed the Asia pivot in the past.
The unfolding situation in Ukraine — which Obama has explicitly said won't involve a U.S. military solution — has Asian allies similarly wary.
"But we steadily advance the interests of the American people and our partnerships with folks around the world."
The accident has prompted widespread grief in the country, as well as anger at the government's response.
At his next stop, in Malaysia, Obama confronted yet another disaster, this time the mysterious disappearance of Malaysia Airlines Flight 370.
His stop there, the first by a U.S. president in decades, comes after an economic growth spurt and renewed — though still cautious — desire for ties with the United States.
"I realized that I didn't -- every single day, or at least more often -- just spend time with her and find out what she was thinking and what she was doing, because she had been such an important part of my life," he said.
And if Malaysians walked into the forum regarding Obama only as a foreign leader, they left with a sense of someone struggling with the same human conundrums as anyone else — perhaps making the gap between nations somehow smaller.