Shafei wants to return to the place where he witnessed a massacre that fuels his nightmares.
Without justice, the infamous event festered in Libya's national psyche and eventually acted as tinder to spark the flame of revolt in February of this year.
Rebels stormed the prison a few days ago, freeing those held inside, including an American journalist.
Then this week in Benghazi, he watched a video posted on YouTube that purportedly showed the storming of Abu Salim.
Or perhaps, with the fighting still raging in places like Gadhafi's hometown of Sirte, he will have to go by boat.
Inspired by perestroika reforms in the Soviet Union in the late 1980s, he spoke out in favor of greater freedoms in his own country.
The guards would drag her son out of his cell and into a warehouse at the entrance of the jail, where mother and son met.
He could never tell her about what he knew was going on in that jail -- beatings, torture, deaths.
"Five or seven minutes after it started, the guards on the roofs shot at the prisoners who were in the open areas," Shafei said in an interview with Human Rights Watch many years later.
"I could not see the dead prisoners who were shot, but I could see those who were shooting," Shafei told Human Rights Watch.
The next day, Shafei was ordered to clean the blood-smeared watches taken off the wrists of the dead.
But the families, mostly from Benghazi, now the de facto rebel capital, did not abandon their longing for answers.
Among those waiting to find out more are three brothers in Atlanta whose father, opposition activist Izzat Almegaryaf, was plucked from his home 20 years ago.
Tasbeeh Herwees, a Libyan-American journalism student in California, recalled in a blog post the funerals for the Abu Salim victims held in the summer of 2009 when she visited Benghazi.
Herwees tripped over the words in Arabic, but by the end of her stay she had repeated the phrase so many times that she was fluent.
"The memories of that summer come rushing back as I watch the present events in Libya unfold from my home in Cypress, California," Herwees wrote.
It was they who initiated protests in Benghazi in front of police headquarters when their lawyer, Fathi Terbil, was mysteriously detained by security officials."
As the civil war raged this year and Benghazi blossomed as a city free of Gadhafi's grip, Shafei, now 42, returned there from Charlotte, North Carolina.
Now, as the newly freed prisoners began returning home to Benghazi, Shafei knew the time had come for him to go back to the prison.
The first step will be to hold Libyan leaders accountable for what happened at the prison.
But mostly, he owes it to the souls of the dead.