He's broken every record in the book and won a glut of Olympic and world titles, but even at the age of 40, Haile Gebrselassie has no intention of resting on his laurels.
"The smiling assassin" -- as he was once famously dubbed -- has been dispatching his opponents with  ruthless efficiency for over two decades and is hugely popular wherever he runs, not least among his  dedicated following of Ethiopian fans bedecked in their country's green, yellow and red.
"Of course there is disappointment when you lose a race," he told CNN.
The next year in 1993 saw Gebrselassie's senior breakthrough as he claimed the first of four straight 10,000m world championship titles after a battle royal with Kenyan Moses Tanui in Stuttgart.
Metronomically lapping the 400m track at just over four-minute mile pace for over three miles, he says that as he ran the beat of the 1995 hit song "Scatman (Ski-Ba-Bop-Ba-Dop-Bop)" kept ringing around his head.
By the time the 2004 Olympics came around, the balance of power had shifted to his compatriot Kenenisa Bekele, and Gebreselassie came fifth as he missed out on a hat-trick, but by then he had already turned to road running and marathons.
Olympic gold over the classic distance has eluded him; he decided against competing in the marathon in Beijing in 2008 because of the air quality, and was controversially left out of the Ethiopian team for the London Games last year.
Years of disciplined training, getting up at 5 a.m. each morning, have left Gebrselassie a battle-hardened veteran and have helped him in his life outside of track and field.
Inspired from an early age by the 5,000/10,000 Olympic double of great Ethiopian runner Miruts "The Shifter" Yifter in the 1980 Moscow Games -- "I was dreaming to be like him" -- Gebrselassie acknowledges that his environment was the perfect platform.
But Gebrselassie is concerned that the neverending trail of talent from his country, characterized by the likes of Bekele and women's champion Tirunesh Dibaba, could be under threat from increased affluence -- welcome though that is in a country which has suffered so much.
With his ambassadorial work, Gebrselassie is doing his best to make sure the conveyor belt of champions continues for a while yet.
Without a role model it's not an easy job," he says.
But they, after one day or after two days, they cannot, which means they've lost for themselves.
Judging by his recent performances -- winner of April's Vienna half-marathon, third in a world-class Manchester 10 km last month and smashing the best for a 40-year-old at the distance -- Gebrselassie will be delighting his fans for a few more years to come as he sticks to his endearing philosophy for life.