Everett, Washington (CNN) -- Sprawled out before us sits the exterior of the world's biggest building by volume.
As part of a convention of aviation fans called Aviation Geek Fest, we're gaining ultra-exclusive access to the factory FLOOR.
We're about to walk knee-deep where Boeing gives birth to some of the world's biggest and most advanced airliners, including the 747-8 Intercontinental, the 777 Worldliner and the 787 Dreamliner.
Suddenly, we're surrounded by partly assembled airliners in a room so big it takes on the feeling of an entire world.
This building is so flippin' big that -- years ago -- it created its own inside weather patterns, including vapor clouds.
Boeing paints the tails before they're attached to the planes.
The "Wing Build" area -- where workers attach wings to the planes -- is the loudest part of the entire facility.
Whooshing vacuums suck up any dust that may be created when workers drill into the planes' lightweight carbon composite material.
The lip of the engine's mouth feels rough, like it has countless scratches etched into it.
"There's no way to sense the sheer size of an airplane without being right there underneath it," says NYCAviation.com contributor Ben Granucci, enjoying his first Aviation Geek Fest.
Just a few hours earlier, a handful of aviation geeks were hanging out at a hotel next to Paine Field, the airport Boeing uses to test and deliver the factory's planes.
In the entire world, there are only four of these giant planes.
This is the fifth avgeek fest, co-sponsored by AirlineReporter.com and Everett's Future of Flight Museum.
"It's someone who always looks up in the sky when they hear a jet roar," says Ryan Ewing, 14, who runs airlinegeeks.com out of his Bethesda, Maryland, home.
Boeing's desire to connect with fans and fliers combined with the emerging power of the avgeek nation opened the doors to the exclusive Boeing tours, Brown says.
This one is the birthplace of what Guinness calls the "most produced large commercial jet in aviation history" -- the 737.
—This place creates 38 of the planes every month on a moving assembly line.
The fact that you can perform such precise work on a moving target -- I find that to be incredible."
— If there's a problem on the assembly line, workers activate a purple flashing light -- alerting others that they need help.
Driving off the property, we spot a train loaded with brand new wingless 737 fuselages headed to the factory behind us.
Well, you just can't get any geekier than that.