The women's rights activist wears a determined expression on her face as she paces the dirt roads of this remote village, looking for the man who Turkish authorities say beat his wife and put her in a hospital twice in less than 12 months.
Some other villagers retreat behind the mud-brick walls of their homes as Yeni approaches.
The woman could barely walk and leaned on her brother for support, as she hobbled a few short steps into the hospital.
"At that time, because he showed regret and because his [criminal] record was clean, his sentence was postponed," said Meral Demirbas, the governor of Saray district where Kapikoy is located.
In fact, according to a 2009 Turkish government report, 42 percent of women surveyed said they had been the victims of either physical or sexual abuse by their husband or partner.
According to the Turkish government survey, the statistics for physical and sexual assault were roughly the same in the countryside as in the most developed, fast-growing cities in the western part of the country.
"The law prohibits violence against women, including spousal abuse, but the government did not effectively enforce it," the U.S. State Department said in its 2009 human rights report on Turkey.
Those shelters have the capacity to house less than 1,300 residents, in a country where the population exceeds 70 million.
"That man started beating my daughter the day she put on her wedding dress and he has been violent with her ever since," said Cemile Ozer, Sidika's mother.
Doctors at Van hospital said Sidika had trauma marks on various locations on her head, infections from injuries, a fever and there was a third-degree burn in the shape of an iron on her back.
Though there was no evidence of brain damage, for more then two weeks after being hospitalized, Sidika was in a near-catatonic state, unable to move or respond to questions.
Meral Demirbas, the district governor of Saray, told CNN an arrest warrant has been issued for Faruk Platin, who is on the loose.
In village of Kapikoy, where many residents eke out a living herding sheep, Yeni goes house to house, dressed in a long skirt and loose headscarf, asking locals why they did not speak up about the violence that had been taking place in their community.
"You can still make a call and inform that this woman is being beaten."