During his reign before retiring in 2012, as worsening income inequality and official corruption fueled mass discontent nationwide, Zhou oversaw the domestic security budget swell to surpass that of the two million-strong Chinese military -- the world's largest.
On Friday, state prosecutors alleged the investigation found that Zhou, 71, had taken advantage of his positions to garner profits for others, and had "accepted huge bribes personally and through his family."
After graduating with a degree in oil exploration, Zhou was assigned to an oil field in the country's northeast and rose through the official ranks from the late 1960s through the mid-1980s.
His political skill shone when he was transferred to the oil ministry in Beijing, which later became a giant state-owned oil company and one of Zhou's power bases.
Zhou also developed strong local ties and planted officials loyal to him -- including secretaries he brought from Beijing -- in key postings throughout the province.
Bo supporters, however, have long called him a political victim as the former high-flying politician was once considered Xi's main challenger for the top spot of Chinese leadership.
"Zhou challenged Xi's authority and threatened his rule -- that's why he's now being held responsible along with his gangs," offered Hu Jia, one of China's leading political dissidents, who was thrown into prison for more than three years on "subversion" charges when Zhou first took over nationwide law enforcement.
The biggest impact was felt in the domestic security apparatus, state oil industry and Sichuan province -- three places Zhou once ruled.
State media reports also indicated that one of Zhou's younger brothers, a onetime farmer, used Zhou's influence to launch a "crisis management" business and profited from helping people get out of jail, enter police academy and sell steel pipes to state-owned oil fields.
"I think, unlike Bo Xilai, Zhou Yongkang will cooperate with investigators because his family is involved," said analyst Lam, predicting a suspended death sentence for both Zhou and his older son.