Belgium defeats USA 2 -1 in extra time as USA comeback failed to gain traction.
Belgium scores second goal on USA in extra time.
Belgium scores on USA to take lead 1 - 0.
OK, so the U.S. lost to Germany, but still squeezed through to the next round.
But nothing to be too proud of either.
This is whatever cliche you can think of to rabble rouse your team spirit.
ET -- enough time for you to skim through this cheat sheet and become an insta-pundit.
When was the last time you saw the country unite behind one cause, gather in front of massive TV screens, and collectively bellow, "I believe that we will win"?
"The country is paying attention in a way that it's never done before, and we have a chance to make some history," said Sunil Gulati, the U.S. Soccer Federation president.
More recently, the teams played two "friendlies" (matches that aren't part of a tournament).
You don't hear Belgium mentioned in the same breath as soccer powerhouses like Brazil, Argentina or Germany.
"I am not here to please the fans in the stands."
At the tournament, it's won all three of its games, conceding only one goal.
Un: The Belgians are banged up.
There's one guy with a broken leg, another with a groin strain, another with muscle tightness.
They know how to deal with the pressures of competing on soccer's biggest stage.
The last time they were at a World Cup was 14 years ago.
Klinsmann's got a second reason: He seems to think that the fact that the ref speaks French gives the Belgians an edge.
"He's able to speak French with their players on the field, not with us.
He's refereed the Netherlands-Australia game and the England-Costa Rica game without complaints from fans or critics about wrong calls.
Today, the natural tendency of the team might be to hunker down, ward off the inevitable Belgian onslaught, and make a run for the goal when chances open up.
All of Belgium's goals have come in the last 20 minutes of games, making it hard for the opposing team to equalize.
Fun fact #4: Brussels sprouts actually do get their name from the Belgian capital.
The folks at FiveThirtyEight give the U.S. a 42% chance of winning.