- Hear how a proposed budget cut could impact California students.
AZUZ: First up, a White House meeting between President Obama and the head of the Palestinian Authority.
Ben Wedeman is in the region, and reports on the situation there.
Now, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has said, he's insisted, that he wants natural expansion, or growth, to occur in those settlements Which means that settlements like Ma'ale Adumim are going to get bigger and bigger.
It cannot have growth in the direction of Jerusalem because of the wall, and because of Ma'ale Adumim, it can't expand in that direction.
The attacks came one day after a suicide bombing in the Pakistani city of Lahore.
It was followed 30 minutes later by a 4.8-magnitude aftershock.
In a recent special election, voters cast their ballots against some plans that Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger designed to help the state's budget.
SIMON: When he graduates from high school next month -- he's number three in his class -- Rommel would be the first person in his family to go to college.
The state facing an unprecedented deficit is looking at ways to save billions, and Governor Schwarzenegger has proposed slashing what are called Cal Grants, money that helps pay tuition for students from low income families.
NANCY ROMAN, COLLEGE COUNSELOR: Our main problem is just getting students to even look at college, because in their head, already, its been ingrained that it's too expensive as well as with parents; they don't want students to apply, because, "Oh, it's too expensive," so we always talk about about Cal Grants.
ROMELL MOORE: By helping me go to school they won't have another person on welfare just taking state money to survive.
Tropical depressions are assigned numbers; they don't get names until they become tropical storms.
Forecasters don't expect it to be much of a threat.
Days before the start of hurricane season, preseason drills and preparations are nearly complete.
MAYOR RAY NAGIN, (D) NEW ORLEANS: Each citizen must have a personal evacuation and recovery plan that accounts for your entire family.
Know what to do, so you'll be ready when the storm threatens.
A new Mason-Dixon poll sponsored by the National Hurricane Survival Initiative found most people surveyed from Maine to Texas have done little to get ready, despite recent big ones: Katrina, Rita and, last year, Ike.
ZARRELLA: But this year, emergency managers fear because of the economy, many people can't afford to stock up.
AZUZ: And finally today, we're taking a look at some stories from the lighter side of news.
And if you're into image and taste, you won't mind if this takes a latt-e time.
ALISON GROS, TEACHER: I made the deal, and I'm just gonna have to accept the consequences.
But if the worms' woes seem in bad taste, they still make for one good segment.
I guess there'll be no chirping on this trip Off the Beaten Path.
Hope you have a great one.