He used an AK-47 assault rifle to carry out the shooting, which killed at least three people, police said Sunday.
French Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius said the French victim was a woman and offered his condolences Sunday to the families of all those killed, his ministry said.
A person who was detained Saturday soon after the shooting is considered a witness and not a suspect, Van Wymersch added.
That witness was not seen in surveillance video recorded during the attack, she said.
Merah, a French-Algerian Islamist radical who received terror training with al Qaeda-linked militants in Pakistan, shot and killed three French paratroopers in two attacks in March 2012 before killing three schoolchildren and their teacher at a Jewish school in Toulouse, France, during a 10-day shooting rampage which he filmed with a camera attached to his torso.
The official said the killer shot the Israeli couple first in the museum entryway with one of his weapons.
With regard to the threat from Islamist terrorism, he noted there has been longstanding concern over the 100 or so Belgian Islamist extremists who received training in the Afghanistan-Pakistan region over the years, and high current concern over several hundred who have more recently traveled to fight in Syria.
She met with the police, Belgian Jewish community leaders and the president of the European Jewish Congress, Moshe Kantor, on Sunday to discuss the security arrangements, an Interior Ministry statement said.
"Attacks on Jewish targets in Europe do not exist in a vacuum, but are part and parcel of an overall climate of hate and incitement against Jewish communities," he said, according to the statement.
"While reiterating my condemnation for this criminal act of anti-Semitic hatred, I entrust the victims of this crime to the God of mercy and invoke upon the wounded his gift of healing," the pope said in Tel Aviv before departing for Jerusalem.
The index score represents the percentage of adults in a country who answered "probably true" to a majority of the anti-Semitic stereotypes tested.
France had the second highest index score in Europe, with 37%, although that was well below Greece, with 67%.