Its not his opponent, but instead it's what he calls a "shadowy" group that is funding television ads against him.
It could be a very wealthy individual who has some grudge against me and is putting this advertisement on the air as a consequence."
That ruling, made on free speech grounds, allows corporations and unions to spend unlimited money to help defeat or promote candidates.
"When you're just trying to figure out who is truly behind that television message that you're seeing on TV, you don't know who's behind it, and that makes it more difficult as a voter to actually have the requisite information to go into the voting booth and make an informed choice," said Dave Levinthal of OpenSecrets.org.
Another conservative group, Americans for Prosperity, expects to raise and spend about $35 million this election.
President Obama has made it a regular practice lately to call out Americans for Prosperity by name in his effort to attack outside groups for spending tens of millions against Democrats without disclosing donors.
"It does help funding, and it helps generate new grassroots support."
Democrats have their own groups supporting them, such as Defenders of Wildlife Action Fund and Citizens for Strength and Security Action Fund, which are not disclosing their donors.
They're targeting African-American voters and "drop-off voters," those who went to the polls for Obama in 2008 but may not be likely to return for this year's midterm election.
Patriot Majority is one of the biggest of these new groups, and it is concentrating its efforts in Nevada, spending at least $5 million so far on ads against Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid's opponent, Republican Sharron Angle.
Craig Varoga, a longtime Democratic strategist who runs Patriot Majority, told CNN his group will significantly step up spending in the final three weeks before the election.
"They don't have to do it [reveal donors] in real time," said Levinthal of OpenSecrets.org.
It's an outside group organized primarily by a Democratic insider, who once headed up Democratic Party efforts to elect members to Congress.
And although American Families First Action Fund is required to disclose who funds it, CNN is told that the group itself was one of the secret donors to the Defenders of Wildlife Action Fund in its ad against Pearce.