Without food or water, cut off in every way from life on the surface, in a world lighted only by the head-lamps on their helmets until the batteries died and left them in profound darkness, the men struggled to escape and then prepared to die.
Eighty-one men struggled to the surface, battered but alive and speaking of horrors below.
In Springhill, each rescuer crawled on his belly into the collapsed mine with a hand-ax, chipped away at the rock, filled a bucket, passed it back to the man lying behind him, who passed it to the next man in line, and in that painstaking way, a single bucket of rocks reached the surface.
On Wednesday in Chile, the rescued mine foreman spoke of the worst moment underground: When the dust settled, the men were able to look around and see their predicament.
Coming to consciousness after the double earthquake of the collapse, lighting their head lamps, the men in each cave were staggered by the extent of the destruction.
Other men privately wondered whether the food and water ought to be preserved and rationed in case escape was more than a few hours away, but they said nothing.
They missed their families terribly and feared that the mine owners wouldn't take care of their widows and children.
Then he realized that the mine disaster probably caused the schools to close, and he felt lonely again, not knowing where his daughter was.
The men pooled their urine in a bucket and used bits of cloth to moisten their lips.
In the gassy pitch-black pits, their quiet voices sounded fatherly and moderate (one was the father of 12).
He, almost alone among the miners, couldn't be said to have a best buddy on the crew.
The rescue of the trapped miners after five days for the group of 12 and seven days for the group of six (a lone man was found alive elsewhere) was celebrated worldwide with breaking news reports, live footage and jubilation.
His fellow miners protested, but the black miner, Maurice Ruddick, insisted that he and his family would have a fine vacation (though they were housed in a trailer far from the hotel), and he urged everyone to relax and enjoy.
Thus was the fellowship that existed underground -- between black and white, educated and uneducated, those of legitimate birth and those born "out of wedlock" -- gradually dissolved by the bright light of day.