The boy who grew up herding cattle in the hills of the rural Transkei area and attended a Methodist missionary school where he was given the name "Nelson" has dedicated his adult life to opposing the racist and segregationist policy of apartheid.
Over the decades that followed, as the movement against white rule in South Africa began to grow and unrest inside the country became increasingly violent, it became clear to the white government that they could no longer continue to govern without consulting the African National Congress and, in particular, Nelson Mandela.
Some have criticized Mandela for placing too much emphasis on reconciliation and not transforming the country enough, but the vast majority of South Africans revere his legacy and its meaning in the society they inhabit today.
Walking through the now silent empty jail cells, you bear witness to the loneliness and suffering he overcame to become a world icon of reconciliation.
Shortly after his release, Mandela built a house at Qunu, his birthplace in the Transkei, based on the layout of his prison lodgings.
Archbishop Desmond Tutu lived here, too, just down the road, so it is the only street in the world where two Nobel Prize winners have lived in separate houses.
While not only about Nelson Mandela, this fascinating museum recreates what life was like for both black and white South Africans under apartheid.
If you're lucky, you might be able to listen in briefly on a constitutional hearing in the main chamber, and the court has a celebrated art collection.
Arthur Goldreich, a white communist, fronted as the owner of the farm while Nelson Mandela, Walter Sisulu and other prominent ANC activists hid from the police in the outbuildings.
Many political discussions were held in the main house and by 1963, it was becoming clear to the ANC that they were putting themselves under too much risk.
No one has proved the claim, and it remains uncertain.
If you find the right people at the museum, they will grab a small piece of plastic chair and you can slide down the vast curved rock that Nelson Mandela slid down when he was a young boy playing hooky from his duties as a cattle herder.
Nelson Mandela's life and legacy are layered into the life and landscape of South Africa, and as the years go by, his stature grows.