Claudia Lacy says she can accept anything: even that her youngest son committed suicide -- if it's proven and explained to her.
Without clear answers, the past few months without him have not been easy.
His family says that night, he packed a gym bag, washed his ankle brace and hung it on the clothesline to dry before heading out for an evening walk.
Lennon's mother was called to the scene several hours later, after he'd been placed into a body bag.
Immediately, Lacy believed her son's death was the result of some foul play.
Lacy says she did not mean that her son had been suffering from depression.
The family says Lennon had not changed his routine and was focused on college and football -- and distracted by his girlfriend.
"There are too many questions and it very well could be a lynching or a staged lynching.
We don't know -- but what we do know is there has to be a serious and full investigation of these matters," says Rev.
"His size, his stature does not add up to him being capable of constructing all of this alone - in the dark," Lennon's brother says.
"I know every piece and every stitch of clothes this child has -- I buy them, I know.
Radisch thought that "some portion must be missing because there was no secondary cut in either belt.
He's going to take those Jordan's off and just get rid of them and put on some shoes that's not his -- we don't know where he got them from, no laces in them -- and continue to walk down this dirt road late at night to a swing set in the middle of the trailer park and hang himself," Lacey says.
"Dr. Radisch noted that her determination of (manner of death) in this case as suicide was based on the information she was provided by law enforcement and the local medical examiner.
"The comments that were released by the NAACP were a synopsis of a professional exchange between the NAACP's independently-retained forensic pathologist and Dr. Radisch," according to a spokesperson for the North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services.
And until someone clearly explains and proves how her son died, Lacy says she'll keep fighting until she gets answers.