Apparently, he forgot those fans are the only group that has stuck by him in spite of the inferior product he's put on the basketball court since he took over the team 11 years ago.
So if you are going to invest in the Atlanta Hawks of the NBA, a league that boasts the highest share of black television viewers, at 45% -- three times higher than the NFL or NCAA basketball -- and a player roster that is nearly 80% black, well, then you better have a smart business strategy to keep your core customers happy and attract corporate dollars at the same time.
The "self-reporting" bigot seems to have awakened one day, looked around the City of Atlanta (which according to the 2010 census is 54% African-American and 38.4% white) and decided that all of his business failures in Atlanta had nothing to do with his own mismanagement of the team.
In fact, it turns out Levenson's decision to sell his interest in the team was triggered by the discovery of his inflammatory email by an outside law firm reviewing the organization, according to CNN reports.
And when Levenson and his partners realized that the arena was half-empty, the first questions Levenson should have asked are: Will sports fans pay money to watch this team play?
The Falcons, who have posted five consecutive winning seasons, including four trips to the playoffs, sell out nearly every game, and they do so in part because they intentionally put a smart strategy in place to attract their African-American fanbase.
The league, to its credit, in the wake of the Donald Sterling disaster, had been vetting other team owners who fostered climates of discrimination and bigotry behind closed doors.
Despite its leading record in the sports industry on diversity hiring, both on and off the court, the NBA is no stranger to the controversial topic of race in sports.
Whether the topic is homophobia, gender equality or religious intolerance, Levenson certainly is not the first person whose public actions have fallen short of their private hearts.
Thanks to strong leaders like NBA Commissioner Adam Silver and his predecessor David Stern, who have implemented tough love but racial compassion, the league has not only preached but mostly practiced racial tolerance.
And more important, they are shrewd businessmen who understand that in today's global economy, a company that doesn't not have the cultural intelligence to build a diverse customer base will fail.
And today, as America's face shifts from white to shades of brown, it remains to be seen whether we will ever stop stumbling over that line, fearing the line, hating that line, so we can finally stand together as one strong nation.