The attack, which represents one of the bloodiest single events in that nation's current period of turmoil, spurred a diplomatic flurry to limit further escalation of the crisis.
The European leaders stressed the need for an agreement on continuing Russian natural gas deliveries to Ukraine, according to the Elysee.
Kerry also talked with Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov, voicing his concern over the downing of the Ukrainian transport plane and pressing Lavrov to "make clear" Russia's commitment to peace, a cease-fire and political dialogue, the state department official said.
"President Obama made clear that de-escalation depends upon Russia ceasing support for separatists in eastern Ukraine and stopping the provision of arms and materiel across the border, and we urge Russia to do so."
"It is a great loss not only for the families of the deceased ones, but for the whole country," he said.
The Kiev-based government is carrying out what it calls an anti-terrorist operation, centered in the Donetsk and Luhansk regions, to try to regain control from pro-Russia separatists.
But the United States also believes tanks and heavy weapons have crossed into Ukraine from Russia after moving from a deployment site in southwest Russia, State Department spokeswoman Marie Harf said Friday.
Of these, three have been loaded onto the kind of low trucks "normally used to move tanks, likely indicating imminent movement by road."
U.S. and EU leaders have warned that additional economic sanctions could be imposed on Russia if it further escalates its incursion into Ukraine.
On Friday, the Kiev government announced that an operation targeting pro-Russian separatists in the city of southeastern port city of Mariupol had been successful.
Pro-Russian separatists wielding automatic weapons and grenades attacked Ukraine border service vehicles Saturday near the city, Ukraine's State Border Service said.
Western leaders have accused Moscow of fomenting instability in eastern Ukraine and have urged Moscow to engage with the new leadership in Kiev.