CARL AZUZ, CNN STUDENT NEWS ANCHOR: The earthquake in Chile was so powerful, it might have affected time!
Yesterday morning, the country's president said that all emergency measures should be in place by the end of the day.
Secretary of State Hillary Clinton arrived in Chile Tuesday, bringing along some supplies and promising that more help is on the way.
And while that tremor wasn't as powerful as the one in Chile, the devastation that it caused seems to have been significantly worse.
The Port-au-Prince quake was in shallow earth, 15 miles from the city.
But Chile's experience is much more recent; more than 28 quakes in the 20th century, including the most powerful earthquake ever recorded in 1960.
Chile learned its lessons the hard way, making engineering the biggest factor of all that sets Chile and Haiti apart.
That led to "Operation Desert Storm;" part of the Gulf War, when a U.S.-led coalition liberated Kuwait from Iraq in 1991.
I'm a government agency that dates back to colonial times.
According to my unofficial motto, "neither snow nor rain nor heat" will keep my couriers from delivering the mail.
And lawmakers would have to approve some of the changes that the Post Office is considering.
But there are some very significant changes that are gonna have to be made to the service that we offer and to the way we conduct our business on a daily basis.
In the meantime, a company spokesman says the recall is "the right thing to do for our customers' peace of mind."
The world's fastest train zooms through China at well over 200 miles per hour.
AZUZ: With the largest population in the world -- 1.3 billion people -- China is making a huge investment in helping those folks get around the country by rail.
China's high-speed trains have come a long way from the steam engines that once chugged into the capital before economic reforms in the 1980s transformed long-distance transportation.
China is now home to the world's fastest train, hurtling from Wuhan to Guangzhou at more than 350 kilometers per hour.
JOHN GONG, CHINA ECONOMICS EXPERT: If you're investing in a high-speed railway system, you're sending checks to two million workers that are involved in the railway industry.
CHANG: China's rail system is now arguably the most advanced in the world.
But with living standards rising, more and more will be able and willing to pay to satisfy the need for speed.
And we're helping students recognize the achievements of women with our free Women's History Month materials.
To most people, the retired teacher is simply known as "the Tulip Man."
We hope you will return and watch us again then.