Daniel Bradshaw, a young barber at Platinum Kutz in central Des Moines, hovers over a customer's half-trimmed head, clippers in hand, talking about the good old days of 2008.
The promise, the hope, the dream of the first black president has stalled in the reality of a stubborn economy, two wars and a Congress engaged in full-contact politics.
So this time around, come Election Day 2012, a frustrated Bradshaw says he might not vote at all.
My wife, either, I've convinced her not to vote," lamented Bradshaw as he edged the hairline of his customer.
The feeling, though certainly not universal, is more and more echoed by frustrated and disengaged Democrats at gas stations and gyms, diners and coffee houses throughout Iowa.
Across Iowa, the state where then-U.S. Sen. Obama surprised the nation and swept the 2008 Democratic caucuses, igniting early momentum and propelling him to win his party's nomination over U.S. Sen. Hillary Clinton, other Democrats are standing tall with the president, ready to fight to give him another term.
"I think if they give him another shot, then he'll have enough time to change some things around."
Meanwhile, the Obama campaign is upbeat, quietly marshaling hundreds of volunteers from Dubuque to Cedar Rapids, Davenport to Waterloo, to stoke the fires for the incumbent president at a time when all the attention is on the Republican contest.
They are tasking volunteers to avoid relying solely on blanket phone calls right now, and instead create sit-down face-to-face meetings with people to build relationships and gather information: what is happening in their community, what people are hearing, who they are, what they care about, how they can be leaders for the campaign in their community.
They argue that no presidential field campaign has ever done this on a big scale.
"By the end of his first term -- his only term -- he's on track to amass almost as much public debt as all the prior presidents combined.
"I remember, after he got inaugurated ... and he said, 'Look, if I can't get this economy turned around in three years, I'll be looking at a one-term proposition,' " reminded Mitt Romney during a stump speech Monday in Marion, Iowa.
Nevertheless, Obama's task in Iowa, considered a pivotal swing state when the general election comes in November, is still grand.
He must retain the Democratic support he had in 2008 -- when he camped out in the state for months before the caucuses and visited Iowa more than three dozen times -- while convincing the third of the voters who call themselves independent not to drift back over to the Republican side, and the other third who are Democrats not to stay home.
"I'd point to the record of achievement, in the face of two things happening simultaneously: The near-collapse of the entire economy, an economy that was bleeding 750,000 jobs.
"The real story for the Republicans is going to be not on the night of January 3, but on the morning of January 4," she said confidently.
"He'll be on the way back to The White House, and they'll be left sweeping up the floor of the empty rooms, and not much else."