Prime Minister Jean-Max Bellerive told CNN's Christiane Amanpour that at least 72,000 bodies had been recovered, a figure that did not include the unknown number of bodies buried by families or collected by the U.N. peacekeeping mission here.
"Despite all our efforts, situations, circumstances are such that we are disappointed in many cases on how this has been managed, beyond everybody's control," he said.
On Tuesday night, a team of New York City Fire Department and Police Department rescuers pulled two children alive from the rubble of a two-story building in the capital.
"We were praying a lot for that to happen," he told CNN on Tuesday afternoon, about 15 minutes after he learned she'd been rescued.
U.S. Army Maj. Daniel Allyn, the deputy commander of the Joint Task Force Unified Response, said flights would be diverted to two alternate ports of entry within the next day or two to relieve the pressure.
Many roads that were impassable in the initial aftermath of the quake had been cleared so that supplies could be trucked to those in need, he said.
At the capital's general hospital, doctors were working under stressful conditions in buildings located away from the main building, which has been deemed unsafe.
The United Nations Security Council approved sending an additional 2,000 soldiers and 1,500 police officers to the country and the port is expected to reopen next week, U.N. Secretary Ban said.
"Our primary purpose is in getting to the population, whether it be the distribution of water, food, or, in this case, where they've got medical treatment going on and they're overwhelmed," Lt. Gen. P.K.
In an interview with CNN's Amanpour, President Rene Preval applauded the progress aid workers made over the past week in restoring electricity and communication, clearing roads, erecting shelters, distributing food and re-establishing hospitals.
The United States was conducting medical operations on board a vessel off the coast, the aircraft carrier USS Carl Vinson.
But such incidents have so far been isolated, said Alain Le Roy, the United Nations peacekeeping director.
There has been a lot less violence in Port-au-Prince than there was before the earthquake," he said.