Charles Dickens reportedly gave Edgar Allan Poe "the bird" idea for famous poem.
When British poet and novelist Thomas Hardy died on January 11, 1928, his literary contemporaries decided he was too important to be buried in his hometown's simple churchyard.
Apparently, the author of more than 120 "rags-to-riches" books featuring hard-working, highly moral young heroes was also an admitted pederast.
Best known for his collection of short stories, Winesburg, Ohio, and for mentoring such literary heavyweights as Hemingway, Faulkner and Steinbeck, Anderson had a knack for unexpected exits.
One day in November 1912, while serving as president of the successful Anderson Manufacturing Co., he simply got up and walked out of his office to pursue a career in writing.
A number of pets graced the Dickens household over the years, including all manner of dogs, cats and ponies.
This same talkative bird reportedly was the inspiration for Edgar Allan Poe's famous poem, "The Raven," published four years later.
When she returned to live on the family farm as an adult, she raised an unusually large flock of peacocks, which she tended to until her death in 1964.
O. Henry (born William Sydney Porter) may have been the master of the popular short story form, but he was far less skilled when it came to money.
It was here that convict Porter assumed the pen name O. Henry.
In 1925, while working at a restaurant in Washington D.C., Hughes tucked a few of his poems under the dinner plate of then-reigning poet Vachel Lindsay.
Lindsay, however, died six years later after drinking a bottle of Lysol.
In 1916, she was awarded the Legion of Honor, France's highest civilian appointment, years before the height of her literary career.
In fact, it more or less killed her.
The elder Bronte sister's nausea was so overwhelming, in fact, that the author couldn't eat or even smell food without becoming violently ill. On March 31, 1855, a dehydrated, malnourished and severely exhausted Charlotte Bronte died at the age of 38.