When a story doesn't make sense, it means you don't know the real story.
A current and highly publicized example of this phenomenon can be seen in the case of a group of teenagers attending a single school in Le Roy, New York, who have developed strange movement disorders in rapid succession.
How do you know that the real story has finally emerged?
Patients suffering with Tourette's are bedeviled by a wide variety of nonsensical movements or speech acts that occur involuntarily, and that are called tics.
And despite its often catastrophic effect on people's lives, it is not associated with any easily identifiable abnormalities in the brain or body that provide an easy diagnostic test for doctors.
It never occurs in an epidemic form such as the mystery illness in New York state.
So whenever a doctor hears about a group of people living close to each other in the same location who develop the same disease, his or her first thought should be that the illness has either an infectious or environmental cause.
Even if you didn't know that all blood tests in the affected young people have been normal, you could effectively rule out infection for one very simple reason: All but one of the people who have developed tics are female, and all but one are teenagers.
That doesn't overly impress me, however, because it is always possible to miss a poison that is currently not well understood.
When the mystery illness is examined in this way, it becomes apparent why doctors have ascribed it to a psychological condition called conversion disorder.
The essence of a conversion disorder is the development of a neurological symptom -- such as the tics seen in the young people of Le Roy -- for which no neural abnormality can be found.
Only someone who has hypnotized people paralyzed for months and had them hop out of bed and run around the hospital room, or who has conducted "truth serum" interviews of people unable to speak, only to have them erupt into King's English, would believe that such bizarre conditions exist.
The type of psychogenic contagion that most likely underlies the tic epidemic is far more extreme than these commonplace examples, but falls along the same spectrum.
And what doctor worth his or her salt would be truly satisfied with an explanation that tells us nothing about the cause of the disease or how to specifically treat it?
The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Charles Raison.