(CNN) -- From the sweeping coastlines of Kalamata to the sun-scorched island of Crete, Greece's olive groves have been thriving in the Mediterranean heat for thousands of years.
The Douzis, now aged 27 and 30, grew up in coastal town of Thessaloniki, where their grandfather Thomas owned a grocery store, selling everyday products such as olive oil or honey to locals.
According to market research, shoppers preferred Italian and Spanish oils, despite 80% of Greek olive oil being extra virgin, compared to 45% in Italy.
It came from olives whose history on the island dated back to the Venetian occupation, 800 years ago.
The brothers were also spending hours in labs testing Greek's best honey for purity and sugar content -- choosing a blend which they called "Bee's project" to finally launch Ergon.
As the Douzis brothers developed their business plans, the country's finances were beginning to unravel.
And many are doing so as expats, after being forced out of the country by the crisis.
Like many of his compatriots, his Greek bloodlines run strong and he set up Reload, in his words, to "let people do whatever they do, and find ways to connect them to Greece and help Greek communities."
He has assisted with events and mentored potential "reloaders" about his own experiences of doing business with small-scale Greek operators.
Working for clients based around the world, Sifakis had a network of customers by the time he finished his service, and started working full-time.
"There are many places around the world with talented workforce that would be more cost-effective.
Ergon, born as Greece's economy collapsed, now has a network of 150 producers who support seven stores and delis in Greece, one in London and another being prepped for Brussels.
The brothers' ambitions reach beyond Europe -- by 2017, they want to be in the U.S., where demand for fresh Greek products has grown rapidly since Americans discovered, and fell in love with, the country's traditional thick yoghurt.
There, in Ergon's flagship London restaurant, Greece's traditional salad is created out of coarsely cut tomatoes, chunks of colorful peppers, a samphire garnish and feta cheese cream.