(OPRAH.com) -- One of the small sorrows of my adult life is being married to a man who won't eat tongue.
Tongue is a hard sell to someone who has already placed it firmly outside his own personal sphere of comfort.
It's no wonder each person in the Western world (where we have so much choice about what to eat) probably defines "edible" in a slightly different way.
She is an adventuresome cook who is utterly incapable of eating an egg if the white and yellow aren't combined.
"Something about the texture -- you know how the yolks are kind of crumbly and the whites sort of rubbery and solid?
"Everything else is acquired," according to Elizabeth Capaldi, PhD, provost of Arizona State University and a longtime professor of the psychology of eating.
He admits that we generally grow to dislike foods that remind us of our bodily functions, guts, or mortality -- which might explain why liver (and other mealy, pasty foods) and oysters (and other squishy, slimy foods) put off so many people.
She half-recalls overhearing as a child that eggs were chicken embryos, a thought that disturbed her in a way she still can't quite explain without turning green.
In 2007 BBC Television chronicled the struggle of David Nunley, a strapping 28-year-old father of two, to overcome a lifelong inability to eat anything but cheese, chips, and white bread.
You don't have to be as compulsive as Nunley to feel similar dread.
Because among other things, they "could not or would not adapt themselves to the foods available locally...and elected instead to depend on supplies from England."
We constantly add new things -- goji berries, lemongrass, Splenda -- and reject others -- chicken nuggets, say, after seeing Food, Inc. "You can think yourself into an aversion," says Capaldi.
The English author of two Chinese cookbooks and a memoir, Shark's Fin and Sichuan Pepper, she went to great pains to get past her revulsion to some of the foods she was fed in China -- including goose intestines, pig brain, scorpions, bee larvae, and tendons from cows' throats, which she describes as "just like rubber bands."
Take "thousand-year-old eggs," made by submerging raw duck eggs for three months in a brew of ash, lime, tea, and salt.
I can't say how I'd react if served a thousand-year-old-egg, but, like Fuchsia, I see aversions as obstacles worth fighting to overcome.
Much as I'd like to coerce my husband into eating delicious, slow-cooked beef tongue, I have to accept that only he can decide what to him is delicious, and what remains banished forever to the land of utter yuck.
TM & © 2011 Harpo Productions, Inc. All Rights Reserved.