The man then asked to be flown to Mexico but jumped out of the back of Northwest Orient Flight 305 somewhere between Seattle and Reno, Nevada.
A retired law enforcement officer brought a tip to the FBI about a year ago, said Fred Gutt, a spokesman for the FBI's Seattle Field Office.
The FBI's lab started looking for evidence that might prove the dead person was the man who skyjacked Flight 305.
Gutt added the FBI has not been able to prove the person is the mysterious skyjacker and the law enforcement agency still does not know for certain whether Cooper survived his leap out of the plane almost four decades ago during bad weather.
apparently was a myth created by the press, according to the FBI -- approached the ticket counter of Northwest Orient airlines in Portland, Oregon, and used cash to buy a one-way ticket to Seattle.
"The pilots landed safely, but Cooper had disappeared into the night and his ultimate fate remains a mystery to this day," the FBI said.
The FBI returned most of the bills to the boy, named Brian Ingram, and Ingram has since auctioned some of them, the Seattle Post-Intelligencer reported.
The FBI appealed for help from the public, releasing pictures of Cooper's black J.C. Penney tie -- which he removed before jumping and which later provided authorities with a DNA sample -- along with some of the found money.
The agency reminded the public that Cooper was no expert skydiver.
He also missed that his reserve chute was only for training and had been sewn shut -- something a skilled skydiver would have checked."
By the five-year anniversary of the hijacking, the FBI said it had considered more than 800 suspects and eliminated all but two dozen from consideration.
Fred Gutt said while the FBI understands there is great public interest in this long-unsolved case "it's a fairly low-priority case for the FBI" as it pursues new investigations involving cases like missing children that have a current impact on public safety.
On Sunday, another FBI spokesperson, Ayn Sandalo Dietrich, told CNN the information on the new suspect is not expected to be "a big break in the investigation."