The trailblazing racecar driver has been exposed to a global audience through Super Bowl commercials, modeling shoots and other mainstream partnerships.
Patrick, who was recently named Nationwide's most popular driver by NASCAR fans, took some time to play the new Sega game and talk about her own gaming background in this exclusive interview for CNN.
I played "Super Mario Bros." I played any kind of racing game that existed, I played "Track and Field."
Being able to be able to be a player along with Sonic the Hedgehog and all the other All-Stars is very flattering and it's very cool.
So to be in something like a Sega game is to me more cool because it's something that's not common, and it's not given that I would be in those games.
I think given the fact that we're in a racing environment, racing games tend to be something that's obviously really common, so growing up I've played them and some people continue to play them and I think it's a good fit.
For me, it's more about having fun outside of the car than it is about actually helping to be able to drive it.
I think that when you take it to the next level and these simulators that cost millions of dollars, I think they can be helpful.
But if it's in your head that it's going to help you to play a simulator or play a racing game, then it will help.
They're visually really amazing, so I think that maybe that might appeal to the female eye.
I think it also is about being able to have fun, and the games just get better and better over time.
There are more easy ways for people to be able to play the games that they want to play, when they want to play them.
That would be pretty cool.
There are always two per series that are at the track for me, but then there are lots of them back at the race shop being built, or ready to go to the next event, especially if it's a different style track like a short track or a big superspeedway or road course.
If you're listening on the radio to the race, you're going to hear a lot of spot reaction about where cars are and things like that.
I trash talk in my mind for sure, but I've been warned not to say it out loud because then everyone can hear, including kids, so I try and be polite and nice.
That's the wonderful world of fantasy.