But e-mails recently obtained by CNN show that Barbour's office was aware of Bostick's October DUI arrest months before Barbour pardoned him along with more than 200 other convicted felons during his last days in office in January.
Jones and Hosemann were even urged by a lawyer in the firm that represented Bostick not to issue the pardon, according to the e-mails.
The full pardon gave Bostick back the rights that were taken away as a felon, such as voting, but his two other DUI convictions remain on his record, according to the state attorney's office in Lafayette County.
A week later, on October 7, Bostick was driving under the influence again, according to the Mississippi Highway Patrol.
A police investigation found that Bostick was under the influence of alcohol while driving but has determined that he was not at fault for the accident, according to the Mississippi Highway Patrol.
The letters detail what friends described as Bostick's slide into alcoholism after the tragic death of his teenage son in a "freakish house fire" and his subsequent divorce, according to pardon and parole documents obtained by CNN.
Another former federal prosecutor, Bob Whitwell, who is married to the sister of Greenlee's wife, also tried to help Bostick get his pardon.
Whitwell, an attorney in the firm that has represented Bostick in his DUI cases, said he called Hosemann, his old law school friend, to help with the pardon, even though the secretary of state's office has no official authority to issue pardons.
"You asked me if he was straight and I gave you my word yes.
It's not known whether Jones spoke to Barbour about this before he issued Bostick's pardon.
Jones no longer works in the governor's office and is currently employed by the Mississippi law firm Butler Snow, the same firm that employs the former governor.
Wearing a pendant with her daughter's image emblazoned on it, Linda Smith said she sees the whole affair as the good ol' boy network at its worst.
Watch Anderson Cooper 360° weeknights 10pm ET.