The statement posted on the official Facebook page of the Supreme Council of the Armed Forces came as the clock ticked on the military's plan to suspend Egypt's constitution, dissolve the Islamist-led parliament and sideline the president, if Morsy does not find a way to end the unrest, military sources told Arab media and Reuters.
ET ) to come up with a power-sharing agreement or face a military solution, the sources said.
The conflict pits Morsy's supporters -- the Muslim Brotherhood -- against an opposition angered by what they say is the president's failure to take steps to improve conditions more than two years after a popular revolution that ousted Hosni Mubarak.
While insisting they want no direct role in national politics, the military leaders appeared to be pressuring Morsy to restructure his government.
Conflicting casualty reports Tuesday afternoon and into the evening put the death toll across Egypt anywhere from two to seven people killed and 144 wounded, according to Arab media and sources.
They also have taken to other main squares in cities nationwide.
The anti-government group Tamarod, or "rebel," said in a posting on its Twitter account that Morsy "has no option but to leave" along with the prime minister and the Shura Council, the upper house of parliament.
Although the U.S. is urging Morsy to call new elections, it did not say Morsy should step down immediately, the senior Obama administration officials said.
The officials said the United States has also warned the Egyptian military that a coup would trigger U.S. legislation that calls for cutting off all American aid.
A Dutch journalist was reportedly raped Friday while covering protests, the Committee to Protect Journalists said.
Over the weekend, an Egyptian journalist died in a bomb attack on a Muslim Brotherhood office; four other local journalists were beaten and their camera equipment destroyed or stolen.
"That some of the revolutionaries are calling on the army to return to politics is a testament to how polarized Egypt is a year after the election of Morsy," Gerges said.
The military will want to see the influence of the Muslim Brotherhood reduced in government and in the constitution, Gerges said.
"It failed in the previous five elections we had in Egypt since the revolution, and they don't want to fail a sixth time," he said.