"This has strengthened my faith," Paula Calzetta told In Session on the truTV network.
Prosecutors alleged Hayes and co-defendant Joshua Komisarjevsky invaded the home of Dr. William Petit on July 23, 2007, beat and tied up Petit, raped and strangled Hawke-Petit, molested one of their daughters and set the house on fire before attempting to flee.
Calzetta and juror Maico Cardona said they were haunted by pictures they viewed -- especially pictures of the Petit daughters.
"... Michaela was the one factor, for me, that I could not get over."
Both jurors said it was hard not being able to talk about the case with their families or even each other during the trial.
"I had never seen him that close."
Cardona said it was important to him that Hayes receive the death penalty because "I knew that he would be in a cell by himself, secluded ... that's what he hated."
But "we wanted to make sure everybody was comfortable with the decision," Cardona said.
"I have a very spiritual background, and I thought that this would be the only opportunity for this man to ever make peace with his Supreme Being, if he even has one," or to accept responsibility, Calzetta said.
Both Calzetta and Cardona said they did not buy the defense's claim that Hayes was merely a follower and KomisarjevskyCalzetta said.
the ringleader of the crime, saying that Hayes had plenty of opportunities to make different choices, to stop or to leave, and did not.
A police officer who interviewed Hayes just after his arrest testified that Hayes told him he saw Michaela upon his return and saw that she had changed clothes, Cardona pointed out.
And all three of those girls were, I think, very brave in their final moments.
"There was never a shouting match," he said.
"It was so wonderful to hug these people," Calzetta said, "and they treated us like family, and we feel almost like family because we've seen such intimate things of their life and lived some things with them, and they are the most wonderful people that I think I've come across in a long time."
The Petit family had said they were praying for the jurors.
Cardona said he thought he would be all right because he's seen movies and television, but he found it's different when something actually took place.