The Denver, Colorado, family's recent attempt to sign up Bobby with Girl Scouts, however, left him in tears, his mother said.
"When a family requests membership for their daughter, we do not require proof of gender, we respect the decisions of families."
Despite the uphill battle, psychologists and therapists speak of a "sea change" toward growing acceptance of children who don't meet long-held cultural norms.
The terms sex and gender are often used interchangeably, particularly on official forms, but sociologists say they are not the same thing.
Gender non-conforming children who do not receive support from their families are at higher risk for mental health issues, attempted suicide and drug use, said Real, citing research at the Family Acceptance Project.
It is the responsibility of the parent to deal with the needs of this child.
"Parents need to find out what the school policies are," Ryan said.
"In some cultures it may not be safe to send your boy to a school in a dress.
The writer, who said she uses a pseudonym to protect the safety of her family, said her son, Sam, 9, represents the gender spectrum -- one foot in the masculine world, one foot in the feminine.
Hoffman said some readers have called her a weak parent for letting Sam express himself.
And the culture more often raises eyebrows when a boy dresses as a girl than when a girl looks masculine.
"Girls have more license to express a range of gender presentations until they get into junior high," said Ryan.
Parents need to be careful not to rush to a diagnosis and predict a child's eventual sexual orientation or gender identity, experts said.
Joel Baum, director of education and training at Gender Spectrum, which promotes an "inclusive environment," said "more and more families are seeing their children express themselves a little differently from what others believe.
"We don't talk about the damage we do when we don't allow a kid to explore this aspect of self," Baum said.
Simply dressing in a non-traditional way does not mean the person has a disorder.
Girl Scouts shouldn't be any different for them," she said.
Archuleta said her son doesn't need counseling and does not the dress the way he does because of his environment.