"Whitney's mother and cousins nurtured her passion for gospel music since birth," according to a biography on Houston's website.
Arista Records' Clive Davis is taken to a New York nightclub to see Houston perform; he signs her on the spot.
The album sold more than 12 million copies in the United States and more abroad, according to Houston's website, and set the record as the biggest-selling debut album by a solo artist.
Houston sings "The Star-Spangled Banner" at Super Bowl XXV before a record 79 million viewers.
The film's soundtrack, featuring Houston's smash hit -- a remake of the Dolly Parton single "I Will Always Love You" -- went 17-times platinum, making it the biggest-selling motion picture soundtrack album in history.
Houston releases "My Love Is Your Love," which earns her a Grammy but does not match the performance of her previous albums, according to Biography.com.
In the same interview, Houston told Sawyer, "The biggest devil is me.
"The show aired during the worst years of the couple's crumbling marriage: drug use, lifestyle excess and bad behavior were all caught on tape, and Houston's reputation sunk to new lows," according to Biography.com.
Houston enters rehab and takes a long hiatus.
Houston works to turn her career around with the movie "Sparkle," the remake of a 1976 film said to be loosely inspired by the Supremes.
Guests on both days overhear Houston complaining loudly about her drinks, accusing bartenders of "watering down" or "putting too much ice" in them, the source said.
Photos of Houston leaving the party appeared to show her sweaty and somewhat disheveled, although Price attributed her "messy" appearance to partygoers' singing and dancing until the wee hours of Friday morning.)
She is seen drinking at the hotel pool in the morning, according to the source briefed on her behavior and activity, but witnesses report she was not behaving erratically.
The Los Angeles County coroner's office has said a cause of death is undetermined pending the results of toxicology tests.
The anti-anxiety medication Xanax was among prescription drugs found in the room, a source close to the death investigation says.
During the private, televised service Houston's fans log onto social media worldwide to share their emotions online.
CNN's Don Lemon and Alan Duke contributed to this report.