Northern Syria (CNN) -- Tanks pounded the Syrian city of Aleppo on Saturday, a sign that a much-feared government offensive in the country's largest city has started, as the opposition warned its allies they would bear responsibility for a "massacre" if they don't act soon.
He urged allies to act outside of the U.N. Security Council, as resolutions there can be vetoed, and called for more aid and weapons.
More than 30 of those deaths were reported in Aleppo, Syria's commercial hub and largest city.
The uprising started in March 2011 after the government of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad cracked down on peaceful protests.
"I believe that the escalation of the military build-up in Aleppo and the surrounding area is further evidence of the need for the international community to come together to persuade the parties that only a political transition, leading to a political settlement will resolve this crisis and bring peace to the Syrian people," he said in a statement.
"We are blocking ... only an attempt to support one side in an internal conflict by a U.N. Security Council decision," Lavrov said, RIA Novosti reported.
One Free Syrian Army commander said the regime has labeled the confrontation for the city as the "mother of all battles."
The United Nations and Western countries, fearing widespread death and destruction, have urged the Syrian government to call off an offensive in Aleppo.
French President Francois Hollande reiterated his position calling for the U.N. Security Council to urgently intervene in Syria, a source in his entourage confirmed.
Fighting over the Syrian issue flared across the border in the Lebanese city of Tripoli on Saturday.
The report said the two nations signed a deal Thursday to expand sharing of electricity and water, with Namjou saying Iranian firms are ready to rebuild damaged power plants.
Lukashevich made the remarks after the latest round of European Union sanctions against the al-Assad regime.
He confirmed the move on Al-Jazeera TV on Saturday.