(CNN) -- Support for abortion rights has fallen sharply in the past year, with Americans now split roughly 50-50 between those who back legal access to abortion and those who oppose it, according to a new survey.
"These data suggest that a number of people have changed their minds in the past year," said Gregory Smith of the Pew Forum on Religion & Public Life, one of the survey's authors.
The only groups whose opinions on abortion did not change were African-Americans -- who tend to oppose it -- and young people and those not affiliated with any particular religion, who tend to say it should be legal, he said.
Pro-lifers are making an effective case that all women deserve better than abortion and that every child deserves a chance to be born," said Cathy Ruse, the senior fellow for legal studies at the anti-abortion Family Research Council in Washington.
"When the church will come out into the streets, we win the battle," said Benham, director of operations for Operation Save America.
I was escaping a very violent marriage that lasted about eight months," she said.
A month later, she began to suspect she was pregnant with her abusive husband's child.
"I do realize that a lot of people in this country consider themselves to be pro-life," she said.
"Conservative Republicans are more certain about the correctness of their own position and less likely to say they want to see compromise.
They are concerned that Obama will go too far in supporting abortion rights as president," he said.
But the subject has crept into the battle to reform America's health care system, with opponents of abortion in both parties determined to prevent federal dollars from funding abortions.
Harlan James Drake, 33, is accused of shooting him and another man in separate locations that day.
Judge Sonia Sotomayor, then a federal appeals court judge, deflected questions about abortion this summer when she faced Senate confirmation hearings for a seat on the Supreme Court.
The new findings come from a telephone survey of more than 4,000 adults in August 2009, conducted by the Washington-based Pew Forum on Religion & Public Life and the Pew Research Center for The People & The Press.