(CNN) -- Remember when the only way you could electronically ruin your life after imbibing a few G 'n' Ts was by picking up the phone?
While we can't help you cease replacing the emptiness in your soul with shiftless parties in communal living/performance spaces replete with the nectar of glowsticks and Four Loko, we can help you undo -- or prevent -- some of the damage you will inevitably inflict whilst doing so.
Let's start with the most old-school of communication devices -- the phone -- and a simple exercise: 1).
If you're now thinking to yourself, "Oh, no!
I feel like it might be a pejorative nickname designed to dissuade me from contacting him...") to old bosses, for some reason, we cling to these old digits like ratty blankies, clutched in our no-longer-childlike hands.
You'll thank us when you're fumbling with your cell at 2:33 a.m. desperately trying to call a car service, and your old boss Caren (who fired you two years ago after you cussed her out and threw her impressive collection of desk toys against the wall in a fit of rage) gets a surprise ring-a-ling.
Feeling a bit more black and blue than usual, you go to your computer, thoughts of your not-quite-platonic best friend tumbling through your mind.
In the past, the lesser-known Gmail feature only gave you 5 seconds to un-email, but a few months ago, the service extended that limit to 30 seconds.
Scroll down to the "Mail Goggles" app in Google Lab -- during windows of time you assign (say, 1 to 6 a.m.), it asks you to complete a few simple math problems before you proceed with the emailing.
You're tweeting incessantly about how your parents think you're a disappointment, how you think you're in love with your intern and how that weird rash on your-- Oh, and did we mention there's a half-empty bottle of vodka and a fully empty container of Mexican takeout in bed with you?
It's basically a Firefox plugin that, once installed, will require you to pass a test (like typing the alphabet backwards) in order to access services like Twitter, Facebook and MySpace between certain (inebriated) hours.
Well, Facebook actually has a little-known feature that allows you to take those friend requests back -- you know, after the hilarity dies down and you realize that since you didn't want to be friends with that kid who chewed incessantly on his jacket collar in middle school in middle school, you certainly don't want to befriend the grown-up version now.
But, well, he's weird... he's probably used to rejection, right?