CARL AZUZ, CNN STUDENT NEWS ANCHOR: It's the best day of the school-week and you're about to get a front-row seat to world headlines without a single commercial.
So the flag was raised in Christina's honor with those who knew and loved the girl walking past it, on the way to a service to remember her.
U.S. PRESIDENT BARACK OBAMA: Here on Earth, we place our hands over our hearts, and we commit ourselves as Americans to forging a country that is forever worthy of her gentle, happy spirit.
We're gonna take you to Brazil, South America, a nation in its summer rainy season.
Rains that are out of hand in some places.
In some spots, the only dry areas you can see are roofs and tree-tops.
The volcano's on the island of Sicily, about 18 miles from the nearest town.
My name was changed from Michael King when I was five years old.
I'm Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., one of the most famous figures in the U.S. civil rights movement.
In that, he discussed his vision for a world where people would be judged by their character, rather than their skin color.
That proposal became law in 1983 and the first nationwide observance of the Martin Luther King holiday was in 1986.
AZUZ: Pizza sticks, tater tots, and hot dogs: the government wants those off your school lunch menu and replaced with foods like chef salad, baked sweet potato fries, and whole wheat spaghetti.
If it takes effect, you could see changes several months down the road.
AZUZ: Gold, money and dreams: A dangerous combination that has been the downfall of many and the success of a few.
But why gold instead of other metals?
POPPY HARLOW, CNNMONEY.COM ANCHOR: We're gearing up to go two miles deep into one of the biggest gold mines in the country.
Here, in Barrick Gold's Cortez Mine in rural Nevada, more than one million ounces of gold were mined last year alone.
HARLOW: But finding gold these days is much more complex and expensive than just, well, panning for it.
HARLOW: Miners have to drill and blast through layers and layers of rock to reach the gold.
And what I'm going to do is turn this into a pile of muck.
HARLOW: So, after the gold ore is mined, about 400 tons of it goes in massive trucks just like this one.
This is the final step before pouring the gold bar.
Something desperately needed in Nevada, a state struggling with the highest in unemployment and foreclosure rates in the country.
AZUZ: With snow falling and daily temperatures in the 20s this time of year, ideas for outdoor activities can come to a stalemate.
Don't know how long they pawn-dered the proposal, but it took over a month and a half for them to piece this together and let the game begin.
Enjoy the Martin Luther King holiday, and we'll see you on Tuesday!