"I didn't have anything better to do," he said of his decision to come to the mall and wait in line to buy the newest Apple smartphone.
One year after the death of Apple co-founder Steve Jobs, that kind of indifference seems almost sacrilege when set against the history of Apple fanboy-dom that surrounds the company's product launches.
Maybe it's harder for fans to drum up enthusiasm for Apple now that the once-scrappy underdog has become the world's richest and most powerful tech company.
A shift, however, seemed evident at the launch of the new phone, at least with the random sampling of consumers who spoke with CNN that morning.
That was evident in the fact that some of the line-standers in Atlanta talked about the phone not as some life-altering blessing from on high (the iPhone has been dubbed the "Jesus phone," let's remember) but in consumer-y and practical terms.
"The excitement has settled," said Justin Henderson, 32, who has waited in line for the new Apple smartphone every year since the iPhone launched.
In a YouTube video of the recent opening of an Apple store in Stockholm, some customers looked nonplussed, if not downright perturbed, by Apple's clapping, chanting mob of blue-shirted employees.
"I'm not saying this iPhone iteration is an awful device, but I question whether Apple has the ability to maintain industry-leading innovation," Choi writes on the site TechnoBuffalo.
What he's done that is Jobs-like is doggedly pursue, year after year, iteration after iteration, a vision unlike that of any other company -- all in the name of making customers happy."
"Reports around Steve Jobs' passing talked about how he was focused on the iPhone 5 during his last days and predicted that it would be his 'legacy device,' " contributor Chunka Mui writes.
Frustrated iPhone 5 users have also complained about a bug that causes their phones to suck cellular data even when connected to a Wi-Fi network.
"Though Apple will remain a highly profitable company for years to come, I would be surprised if it ever gives us another product as transformative as the (original) iPhone or the iPad," writes Joe Nocera in the New York Times' opinion section.
Apple's current executive team is no doubt trying to maintain the same demanding, innovative culture, but it's just not the same without the man himself looking over everybody's shoulder."
Share your responses in the comments below, or join the conversation on Twitter using #stevejobstaughtme.