Cyber Crime Concerns - Find out why social networking sites are popular among cyber thieves.
AZUZ: If no candidate receives more than 50 percent of the vote, then a runoff election will be held.
Unofficial results from August's election showed that the current President Hamid Karzai with 54 percent of the vote.
But on Sunday, a White House official said it would be "reckless" to deploy more troops without knowing what kind of government Afghanistan's going to have.
But as Atia Abawi explains, those aren't the only enemies facing U.S. forces.
In the west of the country, the insurgent groups entail more of a criminal element, some with ties to the drug trade.
In southern Afghanistan you see the traditional Taliban, a group that Mullah Omar still has some influence over.
ABAWI: Professor Stanakzai believes that there are groups and militant fighters that can be reconciled, but many will continue to use Afghanistan as their ideological battlefield.
About 40 million doses were expected to be ready by the end of this month.
AZUZ: And in Washington, D.C. the debate over health care reform has moved behind closed doors, at least for a while.
Participants talked about how nuclear materials made in Iran would be sent to other countries for further development and then sent back to Iran to be used in medical facilities.
The hope in all of that is that the materials would only be suitable for medicine, not weapons.
AZUZ: Keith Bardwell, a judge in Louisiana's Tangipahoa Parish, has caused a national controversy after he refused to marry an interracial couple.
Bardwell says he has no regrets about his decision, since it's "hard to apologize for something that you really and truly feel down in your heart you haven't done wrong."
About how many U.S. students ride the bus to school every day?
Approximately 24 million students take the bus to school.
AZUZ: By now, most of you have probably seen the effects of this global recession in your schools.
The sound of their engines is the last thing students want to hear when they're not ready for school.
LEEDS: If parents get up in arms and say we can't afford to let our children face the kind of risks they have to face when they don't have school buses, then the school board will make the decision that they'll keep the buses.
If elected officials realize how important bus funding is to voters, they're less likely to eliminate bus routes.
It's actually part of a science lesson for students in West Virginia.
The whole point is to plunge the pumpkins off the roof and see just how far the guts of the gourds go when they fall.