Zelaya was electrified by news that the Obama administration will stop deporting illegal immigrants who entered the United States as children if they meet certain requirements.
Zelaya came to the United States illegally from Honduras at age 14 to find his mother, who was already in the country, he said.
"I'm definitely speechless," said Pedro Ramirez, a recent graduate of Fresno State University who was student body president when he admitted that he was in the country illegally.
"President Obama's decision to grant amnesty to potentially millions of illegal immigrants is a breach of faith with the American people," said Smith, chairman of the House Judiciary Committee.
The Development, Relief and Education for Alien Minors -- or DREAM -- Act, would create a path to citizenship for immigrants who entered the United States illegally as children under the age of 16 and have lived in the United States for at least five years, obtained a high school or General Education Development diploma, and demonstrated "good moral character," the White House said.
"This is a legitimate use of the tools that the administration has to focus on their immigration enforcement resources," she said.
"This is what they need to rally a certain part of their base, but it's going to come at the expense of a lot of other people who say this is bad policy and a usurpation of the authority of the legislative branch of Congress," he said.
Why not let Congress decide next year on this issue and on all the illegal immigration problems we have?"
An undocumented immigrant who was brought to the United States by her parents when she was 4, Olivas traveled to Ciudad Juarez, Mexico, last month to beat a deadline to apply for a visa.
Demonstrators then symbolically blocked a freeway on-ramp and next obstructed Aliso Street for about an hour to halt the movement of a fleet of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement vans and buses, which are typically used to haul away illegal immigrants to the border for deportation.
Alex Chavez, 20, a senior at California State University Fresno, drove four hours to downtown Los Angeles early Friday to participate in the "historic moment," he said.
"I want to come here and contribute, to be a teacher, educating young minds.