Instead, "We'll continue to do everything we can to protect the American people from the effects of this awful law," said Michael Steel, House Speaker John Boehner's spokesman, without saying that repeal was still part of the plan.
The troubled roll out of Obamacare has also forced the President to delay multiple important components of the law, including the insurance marketplace for small businesses and the requirement that businesses with 50 or more employees provide their workers with health insurance or face fines.
Instead, Republicans have gone to great lengths to promote the negative aspects of the law by launching their own public relations campaign.
Additionally, Republican opposition had been based on hypotheticals, now the rhetoric has become reality.
"As the law is being implemented, millions are either losing health care or having premiums go up, and Republicans want to make sure that everyone recognizes that."
Salon's Brian Beutler wrote, "I think Republican leaders will be extremely reluctant to hold votes to nakedly destroy the law."
Regardless, Republicans pushed by their conservative wing shut down the government for 16 days in October in an effort to defund the health care law.
While the Republicans have been taking to news conferences, committee hearing rooms and cable television to espouse the negative aspects of Obamacare, Obama has launched his own public relations campaign to highlight the bright parts of the law.
Republicans might have realized that the defund or repeal argument is not politically advantageous as it is associated with the right-wing elements of the party.
Bonjean said Republican incumbents shouldn't be worried about primary challengers if they drop the repeal argument in the halls of Congress because they can still espouse it on the campaign trail.
If the law proves unworkable and not beneficial for Americans, expect Democrats to join with Republicans to alter the law.
"If the positive stories begin to sell, then you won't get wholesale changes," Tanner said.