But the focus in the Leveson Inquiry hearing was on Murdoch's dealings with a succession of British prime ministers going back decades and whether these cozy relationships worked to his personal advantage.
Hunt's aide resigned Wednesday over communications with News Corp. that suggested the global media giant was getting inside information, although Hunt denied any improper dealings on his own part.
And it's significant in part because of the sheer scale of News Corp.'s operations in the United Kingdom, the United States, Australia and elsewhere.
And the Sun readership matters more than most in political terms because it has six to seven million readers, Barnett said, and polling shows many of these are floating voters.
"Time after time, Murdoch insisted on denying that he ever used his newspapers either for commercial advantage or for political advantage, which is quite extraordinary -- and frankly as a claim is pretty ludicrous," said Barnett, who attended the hearing in London.
While News Corp.'s dominance in the UK media market is indisputable, it accounts for only 8% of the company's overall revenue.
But the real money is in the United States, where News Corp. controls The Wall Street Journal, New York Post, Fox News and Harper Collins publishers, among other interests.
News Corp.'s outlets in America are a kind of throwback to the 19th century, when nearly every newspaper had an overt political affiliation, Harvard University sociologist Theda Skocpol said.
Andrew Neil, a former editor of the Sunday Times under Murdoch, said the media baron -- who became a U.S. citizen in 1985 -- had been heavily coached by his New York lawyers on how not to jeopardize those vital American interests through intemperate outbursts in London.
For Wolff, the only surprise from the Leveson Inquiry was that "at 81 years old, (Murdoch) can still be as indominable as ever" under questioning.
The son in question, James Murdoch, a senior News Corp. executive who was chairman of News International at the time of the alleged phone hacking but has since resigned from that role, testified before the inquiry Tuesday.
No doubt every media watcher will be glued to Rupert Murdoch's words once again, waiting to see if the man synonymous with ruthless journalism and tough business practice lets his guard drop and tells all.