Jan Brewer vetoed a "religious freedom" bill that critics say would have allowed businesses to discriminate against gays and lesbians, a supporter of the bill said that community appeared to need no special protection, thank you very much.
He noted that proponents of the law had been unable to cite a single example of a business in Arizona that was forced to do something that would have violated the religious beliefs of its owner.
Referring to a court case that required a photo service in New Mexico to document a same-sex wedding ceremony, the anchor asked how the Catholic photographer could have found that job to be a substantial burden to his faith.
"It basically says that there is no profound difference, socially speaking, between a man and woman -- the only union that can create a family."
Citing his education as a sociologist, Donohue had a ready answer: because heterosexual marriage is in the best interest of society.
Donohue said gays and lesbians have individual rights, but contended that "the institution of marriage is best set when we have kids raised by a father and a mother."
Donohue acknowledged that he could offer no evidence that children of gay or lesbian couples have outcomes any different from those of heterosexual parents, but said that was because the research had not been completed.
Not true, said Cuomo, noting that the putative gold standard has been tarnished by a divorce rate of about 50%, broken homes and latchkey kids.
"Have you noticed anatomically there's a goodness of fit between a man and a woman?"
Donohue, who has been widely reported to be a divorced father of two adult children, did not address that question, but moved on.
"Marriage has always been based, historically, on duty and on commitment," he said.
"In Arizona, there was no legal force making business owners do business with gay people if they don't want to," Cuomo said.
"Because their right as an individual is to marry.
Cuomo then drew a distinction between the Arizona law and Pope Francis, the leader of the Catholic Church, who has refused to judge gays.
"I do believe that people ought to love gays as we would straights," Donahue said.
I think, sociologically, that's not correct."