A recent study by Prudential Financial found that less than 25 percent of women feel they are "very well prepared" to handle financial matters.
Seventy-eight percent said it is very important that they not become a financial burden to their loved ones, but just 24 percent are confident they can pull that off.
Track your spending Why it's important: You know the big-ticket expenses in your life, but all the smaller spending can also be a killer.
Calculate your net worth Why it's important: We tend to focus on assets and forget about debts.
Check your credit profile Why it's important: Your credit score affects the interest rates you're offered on credit cards and loans, can be used to vet your job application, and in some states may influence your insurance premiums.
Do this now: Go to AnnualCreditReport.com to get your free credit reports from the three credit bureaus: Equifax, Experian, and TransUnion.
Cut Spending by 10 Percent Why it's important: The median pay raise for 2010 is expected to be around 3 percent (the lowest forecast in 25 years).
Do this now: Once you input your income and outflow into the Expense Sheet on my Web site, print it out and circle every expense that is a want (not a need), then figure out how to reduce or eliminate it.
And there's a nice payoff for a higher deductible: Raise your auto and home deductibles to $1,000 or more and your premium cost falls at least 10 percent.
Do this now: Call your current insurer and ask for a new quote based on a higher deductible.
Coverage is the same as at an FDIC bank -- $250,000 per person per credit union is fully insured, and additional coverage is based on the types of accounts you hold.
Boost emergency fund to cover 8 months of living expenses Why it's important: By now I am sure you have started saving.
Do this now: Go to MyFDICInsurance.gov for banks and NCUA.gov for credit unions to verify that your emergency fund is tucked away at an institution that is federally insured.
Do this now: If you don't yet have an account at a discount brokerage or no-load mutual fund company, pick one and then ask for its IRA rollover kit.
Reduced contributions are phased out for individuals once MAGI hits $120,000; for married couples, eligibility disappears with MAGI above $177,000.
In addition to an early withdrawal penalty (if you're under age 55), your shortsightedness will cost you future gains.
For "years to grow," enter the difference between your age and 65.
Convert to a Roth IRA Why it's important: As of January 1, anyone can convert a traditional IRA to a Roth IRA (previously there was an income limit).
Do this now: Convert in 2010 and you can spread your tax bill over the next two years.
TM & © 2011 Harpo Productions, Inc. All Rights Reserved.