Cliff -- who is famous for his outrageousness on the airwaves and is sometimes compared to American radio personality Howard Stern -- tries hard to stifle a grin that betrays a mischievous mixture of exasperation and comedic bombast.
He has since founded Cliff Central, a web-only "un-radio" venture that aims to merge online broadcasting with social media and instant messaging platforms.
No longer is he constrained by regulatory guidelines -- meaning he can drop the F-bomb live on air without a rap on the knuckles -- nor does he have to pay for a broadcast license.
Market intelligence firm, the International Data Corporation, expects the smartphone market on the continent to double in volume over the next three years and account for close to a third of all handset shipments by 2017.
Thanks to an initial partnership with the Chinese firm -- who have been looking at ways of publicizing their services in Africa -- users have been able to listen to Cliff Central shows through the app, as well as being able to directly contact presenters and debate the content of shows with friends and fellow WeChat users.
In the future, rather than being subjected to five or six minute advertisements for products that may or may not be relevant -- as currently happens on the radio -- he foresees companies targeting consumers more directly through the app and podcasts.
Elsewhere, Buzzfeed have added a Whatsapp sharing button on their mobile stories while WeChat has stated its intention to move into Nigeria and other African countries where smartphone usage is high by working with local media organisations.
2Oceansvibe Radio was one of the country's first online-only outfits and paired up with WeChat a few months after Cliff Central launched.
"What's different is we are using superior technology to allow people to consume on their own basis what they'd like," he said.
Given the popularity of radio and the growth of smart phone devices in South Africa and across the continent, there will be plenty of observers interested in how Cliff's "un-radio" project turns out.