Time is running out: ISIS put out a video Tuesday giving the Japanese government 72 hours to pay $200 million, or else Kenji Goto and Haruna Yukawa -- like other ISIS captives before them -- will be killed.
Absent such a private back-and-forth, the Japanese official voiced his government's stance publicly, including its defense of a proposed aid package, also tabbed at $200 million, to help those who are "contending" with ISIS, according to Prime Minister Shinzo Abe.
Goto and Yukawa were last seen months ago, disappearing in the same part of the world.
Three months later, Yukawa headed off to Syria to gain combat and survival experience, Kimoto said.
He also introduced him to rebel fighters -- distinct from ISIS, even though both were fighting against Syrian President Bashar al-Assad's forces -- some of whom talked about their need for ambulances to shuttle the injured.
While it's not known exactly when he became a hostage, his last Twitter post was on October 23.
Speaking to CNN in Turkey, he said the journalist had reached out to him about going into ISIS-controlled territory.
Al Zaim refused, believing the trip was too dangerous.
"He is the best journalist I met him, and I work with him because he (doesn't) like military stories.
Sometimes we are going to danger(ous) places, he (isn't) afraid.
The Islamist militant group has been behind mass killings and kidnappings during its years-long campaign to take over vast swaths of Iraq and Syria, attempting to justify its actions -- like enslaving and having sex with young girls -- as somehow consistent with its extreme, conservative faith.
Not only has ISIS beheaded many of them, but it's made a show of it by recording their deaths and showing them online as propaganda, something that began in August with the killing of U.S. journalist James Foley.
"Although you are more than 8,500 kilometers away from the Islamic State, you willingly volunteered to take part in this crusade," said the masked man who stood over Goto and Yukawa in Tuesday's video, addressing his comments to Abe.