His trip to South Korea -- part of an Asian swing that also includes North Korean ally China -- came a day after a Pentagon intelligence assessment surfaced suggesting North Korea may have developed the ability to fire a nuclear-tipped missile at its foes.
Still, the defense agency said it has "moderate confidence" that North Korea could fit a nuclear weapon on a ballistic missile and fire it.
"If Kim Jong Un decides to launch a missile, whether it's across the Sea of Japan or in some other direction, he will be choosing willfully to ignore the entire international community, his own obligations that he has accepted, and it will be a provocative and unwanted act that will raise people's temperature with respect to this issue," Kerry said.
A joint statement issued by South Korea and the United States before Kerry's departure emphasized Washington's commitment to defending Seoul "in the wake of recent unacceptable provocations" by the North.
Pentagon spokesman George Little said that "it would be inaccurate to suggest that the North Korean regime has fully tested, developed or demonstrated the kinds of nuclear capabilities referenced" in the DIA study.
"I think it's good for the American people to understand how tenuous this situation is and how important it is for us to have a strong defense."
The first U.S. official cautioned that raising the untested Musudan missile, which South Korea says has a range of up to 2,175 miles (3,500 kilometers), could have been just a trial run or an effort to "mess" with the United States and its allies.
North Korea denied responsibility in a wave of cyberattacks on tens of thousands of computers at South Korean banks and broadcasters last month, the North's state news agency, KCNA, reported Friday.
The notice, made at the request of the U.S. military in Japan, is believed to be part of precautions taken against possible North Korean missile launches.
It concerns the airspace within 30 kilometers (about 19 miles) of the base in southern Japan, where Patriot missiles are deployed.
Kerry said Friday that U.S. officials were working to calm the crisis, noting President Barack Obama had canceled some of the exercises.