He says it's "a blessing" that he even has his own room to keep clean.
About 60 late-stage alcoholics live at St. Anthony Residence in St. Paul, which is partly funded by the state of Minnesota, and operated by Catholic Charities.
"And I don't only use it on alcohol, I use it on personal needs like toiletries ... but after that, I use it on booze."
St. Anthony -- often called a wet house -- operates under the principle that it's safer and cheaper to have these guys drinking in a controlled environment than out on the cold Minnesota streets.
Catholic Charities operates two in the Twin Cities -- St. Anthony in St. Paul and the Glenwood in Minneapolis -- with the help of state funding.
There was a lot of opposition in Seattle when the residence was first proposed in 1999.
When the same group spent one year in Seattle's Housing First program -- residences where they are allowed to drink -- the same group cost $4 million in taxpayer money, according to the study, which was published in the Journal of the American Medical Association.
The potential savings of taxpayer money is at the heart of the argument for a wet house-style residence that is part of Mayor A C Wharton's 10-year action plan to end homelessness, Mitchell said.
It's basically giving up on a treatable disease, according to William C. Moyers, a director at Hazelden addiction treatment centers in the St. Paul-Minneapolis area.
"But I think after awhile, they came to realize this was a pretty good thing.
Nick had been in and out of detox centers "at least 100" times, sometimes just staying there for a shower and a place to sleep.
"Maybe that's all there is left for me," he ponders, his voice trailing.
"And it only makes you feel good for maybe a day or two, and then the money runs out or, you know, the physical and then mental things start going on ... and it just makes things worse.
"Well, that just depends on how much time I have left," he says.
... (There's) a possibility of not spending the rest of my time here, of maybe pulling myself up and making lifestyle changes."