More than 1.6 million people saw it in the first 24 hours after the New York Police Department posted the image, which was snapped by a tourist.
Chapter 1 of this story moved millions to shed a tear, and one hopes it inspired countless acts of kindness.
After providing protection for his blistered feet, society simply moved on, happy to pat itself on the back for a job well done -- and just in time for Christmas.
Hillman, 54, has told reporters that he hid the shoes because "they are worth a lot of money."
But he needed help, substance abuse treatment, before he could keep a job: before he could keep on his all-weather boots.
What matters is that Hillman, like thousands of others, in the street, in a country that, despite all its economic challenges, remains the richest nation the world has seen.
The reminder is particularly timely now as the country's leaders negotiate over the "fiscal cliff."
America is not the only country with a homelessness problem, and charges that the United States is callous and indifferent to the poor, which I have often heard abroad, are simply false.
In Atlanta, just down the street from CNN's headquarters, drivers can spot homeless camps under highway overpasses.
Practically every major city in the world is home to people sleeping in the streets.
In the United States, 2010 census figures show some of the highest percentages of "street homeless" in California.
In this case, we are referring to the worst category of chronic homelessness: people who spend most nights in the streets.
The Christmas Miracle story of the police officer and the homeless man faded in an Internet minute.
Not for any of the homeless people in the streets of New York or Paris, Stockholm or Atlanta, whom we glimpse briefly as we move on with our lives.
But the more effective act of generosity, the real miracle, would come if the millions looking at the picture of the generous police officer trying to help a man in need wrote the perfect Chapter 3, pushing for better mental health services, more affordable housing, more job training.