Nearly all of the trends on Twitter worldwide were shortly associated with the singer's death: R.I.P Whitney Houston, #DearWhitney, #IWillAlwaysLoveYou, The Bodyguard, Bobby Brown and Wanna Dance With Somebody.
I, like every singer, always wanted to be just like her.
So many of my life's memories are attached to a Whitney Houston song.
When I started my English career, I wanted to be like her.
"The loss of an icon and superstar like Whitney Houston is devastating.
It doesn't exist in the English language.. .This was the voice that record producers dreamed of working with...
This is a tough time for the entire music community, as we all loved Whitney.
"Whitney's voice was so special to me.
"Heartbroken and in tears ... My heartfelt condolences to Whitney's family and to all her millions of fans throughout the world.
"Sending prayers of peace and solace to her family, friends & fans!
I couldn't believe what I was reading coming across the TV screen."
She was undoubtedly one of the greatest superstars of all time.
"I am absolutely heartbroken at the news of Whitney's passing.
"I was the biggest fan of hers.
"Whitney was my musical hero ... the reason why I wanted to sing.
"Whitney Houston was not only an amazing artist but also a beautiful person.
Every time we would see each other, we always had wonderful conversations about life and the business."
Sending my love and deepest condolences to her family and friends.
"Whitney Houston, the singers' singer and voice that inspired the world.
"I am deeply saddened and touched to the core of this news of my musical mentor Whitney Houston.
It's too painful when a sister-friend passes; don't want analysis ... want reflection.
She had one of the most iconic voices of my lifetime."
The soundtrack of so many lives.
"We are deeply saddened by the tragic and untimely passing of Whitney Houston, whom we were blessed to have just completed work with on the remake of the film "Sparkle."
Her soaring talent put her in the pantheon of great New Jersey musical talents like Frank Sinatra, Count Basie and Bruce Springsteen."