(CNN) -- Standard Chartered has agreed to pay a $340 million fine to New York banking regulators to settle charges it laundered money for Iranian clients -- but the UK bank is far from the only one to be implicated in illegal transactions with sanctioned nations.
In each case bank employees permitted Iranian USD payments to be cleared through U.S. banks without regard to the ultimate destination of the funds and whether they were intended to finance Iran's nuclear missile program or support Hezbollah or other terrorist groups.
In 2009, Lloyds Bank and Credit Suisse were fined $350 million and $536 million, respectively, for allegedly removing or altering information to conceal prohibited transactions with Iranian clients and customers from other sanctioned countries.
Clearly, bank officials devised and implemented the fraud schemes that resulted in the concealment of tens of thousands of transactions with an aggregate value in the hundreds of billions of dollars involving sanctioned countries, persons, and entities.
Or maybe the reason we're not seeing mass indictments of senior bank officials has to do with a fear that such action could result in the target bank suffering devastating economic losses, which would be passed on to innocent shareholders.
Banks could simply decide to evade sanctions laws and anti-money laundering controls, and factor in the monetary sanction as the mere cost of doing business.
The allegations in the DFS order state that SCB generated hundreds of millions of dollars in fees for processing the Iranian transactions, meaning the SCB could still have profited from its unlawful conduct.
Perhaps New York regulators were under mounting criticism and pressure from federal authorities for taking unilateral action against SCB and DFS wanted to resolve the case as quickly as possible.
At the very least, it is abundantly clear that the DFS is prepared to act alone when necessary against financial institutions believed to be breaking U.S. economic sanctions law, rather than follow the lead of federal authorities.
Is the ultimate penalty imposed against offending banks going to be more or less severe than sanctions imposed by the federal authorities?
Bank officials who knowingly and wilfully violate the laws enacted to prevent banks from being used to facilitate money laundering, terrorist financing, and financial dealings with rogue regimes should be held accountable and punished to the full extent of the law.