Once aboard the German carrier's A346, he was led to his first-class suite, where a spacious leather seat and ottoman ran the length of four airplane windows and various compartments overflowed with noise-canceling headphones, menus, pajamas and slippers.
According to the International Air Transport Association, this is because upper-class passengers, although a small minority among international air travelers, account for almost a third of airline revenues.
Says Lais, whose personal Lufthansa escort expedited his passage through airport security and passport control, "As much as the free-flowing caviar and throne-like seat add to the exclusivity of first class, it's the level of on-the-ground attention that makes all the difference."
The fully encapsulated cabins, where you can dine on lobster thermidor and rack of lamb, feature beds accented with hand-stitched Italian leather, trimmed in burrwood and topped with a plush mattress and Givenchy bedding.
The cabin also features handsome wood paneling and seats whose unique air-cushion technology has won best seat design awards from Global Traveler magazine for the past two years.
Exclusive to the fourteen first-class passengers aboard its A380s, Emirates' Shower Spas afford guests the mile-high luxury of a hot, five-minute in-air shower.
Inside, you'll find 23-inch entertainment screens loaded with games and the latest film releases, personal mini-bars and chestnut Italian leather seats from Poltrona Frau (Ferrari's leather experts), which convert to a 80-inch flatbed topped with Dupioni silk and cotton duvets.
But a closer inspection reveals a host of discreet high-tech elements and minimalist design details.
But first-class cabins on the carrier's A380s go even further by offering the industry's first automated air humidifiers (which regulate cabin humidity for passenger comfort).
A private entrance leads to the first-class cabin on Cathay's 777s, where just six tranquil pods create a spacious herringbone layout that optimizes passenger privacy.
The high-tech aluminum cubicles, available only on the airline's 777 flights between New York and Tokyo, are laid out in a one-two-one configuration; each features lap rugs made from bamboo fiber, separate cocktail tables, laptop drawers, wood-grain wallpaper and 23-inch touch-screen LCD TVs (which passengers can use to order dishes like spiny lobster dumplings in multicourse Kaiseki menus).
Chairs come with variable lumbar support and an eight-point massage system and convert to spacious 83-inch beds, where you can actually toss and turn while watching over 100 Hollywood (and Bollywood) movies on the 23-inch LCD screen.
The suites contain personalized storage compartments, reading lights and wide-screen TVs with upgraded AVOD (audio video on demand) systems, plus Bose headphones.
Share your thoughts in the comments below.