In Syria, meanwhile, despite the intensified world pressure for President Bashar al-Assad to halt the violence and step down, his security forces continued their tough offensive against protesters.
Other proposals include stopping technical assistance to Syria from the European Investment Bank and imposing an asset freeze and travel ban on those benefiting from or supporting the regime's policies.
"The European Union continues to aim at putting an end to the brutal repression and assisting the Syrian people to achieve their legitimate aspirations," she said in a statement.
"It's quite startling, it's horrible, and we're trying to use both diplomatic pressure and economic pressure to get them to stop doing it," Toner told CNN's Brooke Baldwin, referring to the use of force against protesters.
However, in a remarkable step and due to increasing international support for the protest movement and the subsequent morale boost, many protesters have managed to overcome the security and military barriers and begin taking the steps necessary to de-legitimize the government," the group said.
Many of the deaths occurred in the southern province of Daraa: eight in Ghabagheb, five in Herak, one in Inkhel and one in Nawa, said the London-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, an opposition activist group.Five deaths were reported in the western city of Homs, two in Harasta and Reheba, in the Damascus countryside, and one in Douma outside Damascus.
An older man was hit by gunfire in the Daraa province city of Nawa when security forces were trying to disperse a demonstration.
An activist based outside Syria with a network in Latakia said security forces in al-Ramel and other areas targeted in the crackdown used loudspeakers to warn people under the age of 55 not to go to mosques.
CNN is unable to independently confirm reports from Syria because the government has limited access to the country.
He said the agency has been assisting these people in Latakia, Homs, Yarmouk and Aleppo with cash grants for food, medicine and accommodations.
"Many people around the world were shocked by the images of unarmed refugees being shot at as they fled from their homes, amid the firing on their refugee camp," Gunness said.