(CNN) -- Michigan has dealt a tremendous blow to unions, approving a right-to-work measure in the heart of organized labor's industrial stronghold.
Michigan has become the 24th state to adopt a right-to-work law, which removes the requirement for people to pay unions to work at unionized agencies, effectively decreasing union funding and making it less likely that workers choose to organize.
"People need to realize what unions have done for them.
For much of American history, unions have been credited with helping millions achieve the American dream and criticized for "heavy-handed" operations (They were also reviled for corruption in the days of Jimmy Hoffa.
But unions have long remained a force to be reckoned with.
While there have been moments of good news for organized labor, including pay bumps for GM autoworkers, industry analysts agree that organized labor no longer holds the sway it once did among America's workers.
"The anti-union campaigns of the last three years, starting with Wisconsin, have really been driven ... by big national organizations and money," said Lafer, a union member and who teaches labor studies at the University of Oregon.
In this time of economic uncertainty, workers are afraid to organize because they don't want to upset their employers and lose their jobs.
In recent years, the retirement of baby boomers has fueled anti-union sentiment as some companies struggle to pay pensions as well as health care for the aging population -- benefits that were negotiated through collective bargaining.
"Unions are going the way of the dinosaur in the U.S. private sector, which is a good thing for workers and businesses because it will make America more competitive," he said.
Union organizers did a great deal to push for President Barack Obama's re-election in key states, including Michigan.
Even if unionized workers cost more, they can often prove to be a higher-quality work force that will last, grow and learn new skills, she says.
"We're coming out of a pretty nasty recession ...