The question at the core of Obergefell v. Hodges is one of the most consequential debates of the early 21st century, and one that is already helping to shape the 2016 presidential race.
Appointed to the bench by President George W. Bush, Roberts has a solid conservative record and would seem an unlikely vote to support a constitutional right to same-sex marriage.
"If the Windsor majority votes in favor of marriage equality, the ruling will be one of the most momentous decisions of the Roberts court," said Judith E. Schaeffer of the Constitutional Accountability Center, which is advocating for same-sex marriage.
The hope in conservative circles is that Roberts will see his legacy as ensuring that the issue of same-sex marriage gets decided by the people, not the courts.
He wrote separately to say he thought Congress acted constitutionally when it passed the law in 1996 in an attempt to provide "uniformity and stability" at a time when every state defined marriage as between a man and a woman.
Another clue to Roberts' thinking in the Windsor dissent is that he took particular issue with any notion that the Defense of Marriage Act was passed out of a desire to harm -- noting it had the support of majorities in both the House of Representatives and the Senate as well as President Bill Clinton, who signed it into law.
At the time, Roberts simply wrote that the court "does not have before it, and the logic of its opinion does not decide" whether states can ban same-sex marriage.
The ruling left in place a lower court decision that had invalidated Proposition 8 and thus paved the way for same-sex marriage in California.
Without comment, the court declined to take up any of the cases, clearing the way for thousands of additional same-sex marriages.
"When the institution of marriage developed historically, people didn't get around and say, 'Let's have this institution, but let's keep out homosexuals,' " Roberts said during the Proposition 8 oral arguments.
"The institution developed to serve purposes that, by their nature, didn't include homosexual couples."