While the Justice Department investigates the case, Crawford's name -- along with Michael Brown and Eric Garner -- is being chanted by some demonstrators across the country protesting what they say is systemic racism that fuels police violence.
In the interrogation video, which was first posted on The Guardian's website on Sunday, a police detective repeatedly presses Crawford's tearful girlfriend, asking her where Crawford got the gun he had in the store.
"I swear to God, on my job, my family, on everything I love," Tasha Thomas replies, telling the detective repeatedly that she never saw Crawford with a weapon and that she'll take a polygraph test to prove it.
I've never known him to have a gun," she says.
The detective says he'll write down her testimony but then asks whether she's under the influence of drugs or alcohol.
It's not until the end of the 90-minute interrogation that Thomas learns her boyfriend has died.
So I was very direct in my questions that I was having problems believing she would have not seen him bring a gun into the store," he wrote.
"She became emotional during the interview and started crying, saying that she is not lying, she will take a lie detector test and do whatever she needs to do."
The family alleges, among other things, that the police officers did not do due diligence to determine that Wright wasn't a threat; that the officers didn't give him enough time to put down the weapon; and that Walmart was negligent because the air rifle had been resting on a shelf, unpackaged, for at least two days, the family's lawyers said Tuesday.
After the grand jury decided in September not to indict the police officers who were involved in the shooting, prosecutor Mark Piepmeier said a "perfect storm of circumstances" led to Crawford's death and noted that the air gun bore a strong resemblance to an actual automatic weapon.
"They, in their mind, had it made up that Mr. Crawford was a criminal, and they proceeded based on that without doing anything to independently corroborate what was actually happening in the store," he said.