After sunset, many area dive companies run boat excursions for both snorkelers and certified divers to get within inches of anywhere from a few to more than a dozen of them.
Big Island Divers is one of many reputable companies running year-round night trips for ages 10 and older to both dive and/or snorkel with manta rays.
Mosquito Bay off Puerto Rico's Vieques Island is renowned for its bioluminescence: waters that glow an electric blue and green -- a combination of environment and the tiny luminescent micro-organisms called dinoflagellates that live there.
The Night Safari includes both a guided, open-air tram ride through the park's seven geographical zones as well as walking trails.
Approximately 1,500 criminals cycled through this federal penitentiary, including some of the most disruptive men of their time: gangster and crime boss Al Capone; Arthur "Doc" Barker, killed by Alcatraz prison guards during an escape attempt; and Robert "Birdman" Stroud, who spent the first six years of his 17-year sentence in solitary confinement.
Due its popularity the night tour is often sold out weeks in advance.
A softly lit path through the Siq, or Petra's main entrance, leads to Al Khazneh, where a short performance of haunting Bedouin music and poetry takes place Monday through Wednesday.
Tours often include visits to the Albayzin (the city's ancient Muslim quarter) and the house caves of Sacromonte, as well as a bit of strenuous climbing -- using nothing but headlamps to guide your way -- that culminates with a fantastic panoramic view of the city.
You can meander the Peñas Blancas river by raft on a Twilight Safari Float, listening to the sounds of the jungle and seeking out howler monkeys hanging from tree branches, or embark on a guided night walk through Ecocentro Danaus, a private nature reserve that's home to frogs, birds and sloth.
The true beauty of this experience is being so close to Dubai's nonstop action but feeling worlds -- if not centuries -- away.
Most safari companies use open-sided vehicles so there's nothing between you and the animals, getting you as close as possible to the action -- which may include a wandering pack of wild dogs, a whooping pair of hyena or a leopard on the prowl.
Then it's time to descend -- in near total darkness -- on a series of zips through remote stretches of nothing but snow and old growth forest and reaching speeds of up to 62 mph.
Laura Kiniry is a freelance travel writer based in San Francisco.