A leaf-loving spouse or parent or friend has often conned this hater of quiet nature into a leaf-focused trip.
Is there a way to honor the wishes of those travelers who appreciate the amazing beauty and science of trees hunkering down for the winter and those would rather do something else?
Head to Camden Hills State Park for the view from the 800-foot summit of Mount Battie, made famous by Maine poet Edna St. Vincent Millay, and enjoy the views of Camden Harbor, Penobscot Bay and the surrounding hillsides covered in fall color.
The compromise: Head to the nearby town of Belfast to enjoy a pint at Marshall Wharf Brewing Company on Belfast Harbor.
"Driving around the lake, you get to explore the quintessential towns of Wolfeboro and Meredith," says Jim Salge, Yankee magazine's fall foliage blogger.
The compromise: Head down the road to Gunstock Mountain Resort, where the resort's zipline tours can get your adrenaline going.
Head to the popular Aspen Vista Trail in the Sangre de Cristo Mountains for peak aspen tree leaf-peeping season now through the end of October.
Starting in October, the museum will host an exhibit showcasing O'Keeffe's depictions of Lake George (New York), where she had a rural retreat.
The compromise: Drive into the town of Blowing Rock for respite from the quiet of the leaves.
The compromise: After a stint in the forest, you might be inspired to hunt for your meal.
The compromise: After all that peeping, visitors can head to the town of Bishop to see how celebrated photographers Galen and Barbara Rowell see the landscape at Mountain Light Gallery.
"This week's forecast looks great, and the onset of cool nights and some frost is what really kicks in the next level of vibrancy," Snyder says.
If that good weather continues next week, "that drive within an hour's radius of Ben & Jerry's will afford viewing opportunities of every stage of fall color."
Because it's Vermont, and we think you should soldier on a bit longer (you non-leaf fans), we add Snyder's extended tour: From Ben & Jerry's, take the classic foliage tour on Route 100 north up to Stowe, where the color is already more advanced.