Separately, Director of National Intelligence James Clapper said late Monday that he was authorizing the release of more details about the government's collection of telephone records under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, in an effort to show the extent the spying program was overseen by a secret federal court and Congress.
Most of the newly-declassified documents describe the aggressive push by the NSA, the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Justice Department for lawmakers to save the bulk telephone-data collection effort, known as the 215 program, because it was important for their efforts to thwart terrorist threats.
What I am confirming is the fact that we're undergoing a complete review of how our intelligence operates outside of the country," the President told Fusion TV.
White House spokesman Jay Carney refused to discuss particular reported operations on Monday, but went on at some length on changes ordered by Obama in response to the Snowden leaks, including a review of surveillance programs to be completed in December.
The Wall Street Journal reported on Sunday that the president was unaware of the full scope of the surveillance programs involving heads of state.
In particular, the official said the White House didn't learn of all of the surveillance programs until its internal review over the summer, after which some of them were stopped.
Another senior administration official argued the president approves a set of intelligence priorities, and then it's the responsibility of his administration to determine how to carry those out, making it unreasonable to expect Obama to know every detail of exactly how that happened.
"I will be seeing the German Ambassador tomorrow night and will express directly to him my belief that it was wrong for the Administration to engage in monitoring of the Chancellor's telephone calls," she said in a statement.
German intelligence officials are scheduled to meet with their American counterparts in Washington this week to ask about surveillance programs.
The 60 million calls were not recorded, but the NSA collected serial numbers of devices, phone numbers, locations and durations of calls, the newspaper said.
It said the policies have "played a critical role in protecting citizens of the United States" and played "an instrumental role in our coordination with our allies and in protecting their interests as well."
"Ultimately, the United States needs to balance the important role that these programs play in protecting our national security and protecting the security of our allies with legitimate privacy concerns."