Washington (CNN)President Barack Obama -- who once famously declared "there is not a black America and a white America" -- is again feeling his way through a volatile debate over race that offers fresh evidence of the nation's enduring divisions.
It was not quite the rhetoric of the transcendent political figure who spoke eloquently about race during his first campaign, nor was it the impassioned president who reacted so personally in the aftermath of Florida teenager Trayvon's Martin's death.
The President "is always on a teeter-totter of not really wanting to lean too far this direction, that direction," said Julian Bond, a longtime civil rights activist and chairman emeritus of the NAACP.
His approach to Ferguson stands in contrast to remarks last year after George Zimmerman was acquitted in the 2012 shooting death of the 17-year-old Martin.
Obama has dealt gingerly with racial issues since he burst onto the national political scene in 2004 as a state senator from Illinois who delivered a galvanizing speech at that year's Democratic National Convention.
Race would remain an unwelcome undercurrent throughout the campaign and after -- most notably when his aides had to confront claims by conservative conspiracy theorists that the president was not born in the U.S. That controversy only faded when he produced a document certifying his birth for reporters.
Obama allowed Attorney General Eric Holder and other officials to push forward on issues like voting rights and housing that are important to the African American community.
But Obama has studiously avoided the debate over whether race is a factor in his sinking approval ratings.
He also shies away from talking about whether race played a role in his party's struggles in the South this election season, as Louisiana Sen. Mary Landrieu, a Democrat, suggested during an interview about her own prospects for re-election this fall.
"For the overwhelming majority of people who just feel frustrated and pained because they get a sense that some communities aren't treated fairly or some individuals aren't seen as worthy as others -- I understand that and I want to work with you and I want to move forward with you," Obama said Tuesday.