4 blew up after a cooling capability test, and the resulting nuclear fire lasted 10 days, spewing 400 times as much radiation as the bomb dropped on Hiroshima.
With 200 tons of lava-like radioactive material still below the reactor, and the  "New Safe Confinement" aimed at containing and protecting it not scheduled for completion till 2015 (already 15 years overdue) this story of nuclear disaster is in its early chapters.
These days, Ukraine's four other nuclear power plants also dispose of their spent fuel inside the Zone.
But amidst the complicated real-life calculations and compromises -- where science and politics meet to duke out the viability of nuclear energy -- the long, deep, human parable of Chernobyl is often lost.
Of that group, the remaining women, now in their 70s and 80s, are the last survivors of a group that defied authorities -- and it would seem, common sense -- and illegally returned to their ancestral homes shortly after the accident.
One self-settler, Hanna Zavorotnya, told me how she snuck through the bushes back to her village in the summer of 1986.
It's hard for us -- especially Westerners with deeper connections to our laptops than any piece of soil -- to understand.
Five happy years, the settlers logic went, is better than 15 condemned to a high-rise on the outskirts of Kyiv.
The residents of the Chernobyl region are forest-dwelling steppe people of Ukraine's Polesia region and did not adapt well to urban environments.
Radioactive contamination from the accident has been death-dealing, to be sure, but relocation trauma is another, less-examined fallout of Chernobyl.
Of the old people who relocated, one Chernobyl medical technician, whose job is to give annual radiation exposure tests to zone workers  said: "Quite simply, they die of anguish."
There aren't studies to refer to (after all, semi-legal marginalized old women living on radioactive land are hardly a civic or research priority) but  surprisingly  these women who returned home have, according to local officials and journalists who have kept track of them, seem to have outlived their counterparts who accepted relocation -- by some estimates, up to 10 years.
Is the power of motherland, so fundamental to that part of the world, palliative?
But their existence and spirit will leave us wondering about the relative nature of risk, about transformative connections to home, and about the magnificent tonic of personal agency and self-determination.