(CNN)  -- Actor Wendell Pierce's biggest role today is running the Pontchartrain Park Community Development Corp., which is hard at work trying to rebuild the New Orleans neighborhood devastated by Hurricane Katrina.
Although separate but equal, my parents' generation created something that was bucolic.
It was not only an idyllic place to grow up, there were also high expectations.
It was one of the most stable neighborhoods in the United States: 90 percent home ownership, less than 10 percent poverty in a city with 80 percent, no crime.
We stand in line to get something like 250 properties, and we are up to 20 or 25 now.
We have 200 people in line to purchase homes, and that's before any marketing.
That's because the state is hostile to the city and is trying to reappropriate the money to other parts of the state and not to the city of New Orleans.
Three billion dollars has been appropriated [to rebuild after Katrina] and hasn't been spent in five years and that's because there's an agenda supported by many that don't want people to move back.
And there's $3 billion to assist them to get back in their homes, and the state is not doing anything to help them out.
The only large-scale thing they did was to destroy public housing and get rid of a large population of minority people and the poor.
It's a reminder we are not far off from the days when the ugliest aspects of the country were made into law, so it can so easily go right back into it.
No matter who you are, young or old, it's a diverse group of people, a predominantly African-American community that's been stable ever since it was constructed.
What surprised me the most [when I began this] was the lack of skill and competence on the government's part to know how to put this together, and how strong the effort to stop people from moving back to New Orleans is.
PIERCE: It's no good to build one or two houses in a city that has 50,000 blighted properties.
PIERCE: Well -- you can't tell all the stories; there are so many, so you can't please everybody -- but there is an authenticity to our show.
But I learned every song, and I'm getting better!