(CNN) -- Colombian and Mexican drug cartels have jumped the Atlantic Ocean and expanded into West Africa, working closely with local criminal gangs to carve out a staging area for an assault on the lucrative European market.
The calculus is simple: bigger profits in Europe than in the United States, less law enforcement in West Africa than in Europe.
"The exponential rise in the number of consumers has made Europe the fastest-growing and most-profitable market in the world," said Bruce Bagley, dean of the Graduate School of International Studies at the University of Miami.
About 27 percent of the cocaine that entered Europe in 2006 came from Africa, the United Nations said.
There's also the fact that the European Union recently issued a 500 euro note, currently equivalent to about $700.
So the Colombian and Mexican cartels have discovered that it's much easier to smuggle large loads into West Africa and then break that up into smaller shipments to the continent -- mostly Spain, the United Kingdom and France.
Governments are weak and ineffective and, as a top DEA chief testified to the U.S. Senate this summer, officials are often corrupt.
Foot soldiers can be recruited from a large pool of poor and desperate youth.
The United States is loath to give aid to these countries because they are corrupt."
"As a result, when culprits are apprehended, they are driven in a taxi to the police station.
For example, she said, "because the police are so impotent, the culprits are often held for just a few hours before senior military personnel suddenly attain extraordinary judicial powers to demand their release."
Small planes modified for overseas flight that can carry a 1-ton cargo also have been used.
The GAO report noted that "U.S. government officials have observed an increase in suspicious air traffic originating in Venezuela."
"Colombian and Venezuelan traffickers are entrenched in West Africa and have cultivated long-standing relationships with African criminal networks to facilitate their activities in the region," Harrigan told a Senate subcommittee on African affairs.
"The threat of narco-terrorism in Africa is a real concern, including the presence of international terrorist organizations operating or based in Africa, such as the regional threat presented by al Qaeda in the Lands of Maghreb," he said, referring to al Qaeda activists in North Africa.
"The profit potential is such that the FARC is one of the largest cocaine-trafficking operations globally and is also a terrorist organization," he said.
Analysts note that the surge of cartel activity in West Africa is a fairly recent development.
"I've been warning people in Europe and Latin America starting 10 years ago where this issue was going to move," he said.
"This trend appears to be continuing in 2009 and includes declines in the number and volume of seizures made in the region and in the number of air couriers coming from the region in Europe," the report concluded.
"In the last three or four years, it's increased quite dramatically," he said.