Before Sallal's statement, officials from other countries and companies that employed foreign workers at the sprawling plant had confirmed 29 hostage deaths.
The crisis began Wednesday when Islamist extremists in pickup trucks struck the natural gas complex some 50 kilometers (30 miles) west of the Libyan border, gathered the Westerners who worked there into a group and tied them up.
At one point, the militants tried to flee the compound in vehicles that carried explosives and three or four hostages as human shields, Sallal said.
One-eyed veteran Islamist fighter Moktar Belmoktar has claimed responsibility for the hostage-taking on behalf of his al Qaeda-linked group, according to Mauritania's Sahara Media news agency.
"This would have been a most-demanding task for security forces anywhere in the world, and we should acknowledge the resolve shown by the Algerians in undertaking it," the British leader said.
Energy and Mining Minister Youcef Yousfi, who a day earlier insisted Algeria can keep its gas facilities secure without foreign forces' help, said he believes the targeted gas facility will be back running "in the shortest possible time" and that foreign workers will soon return.
"I don't think that these workers have left definitively Algeria," Yousfi told reporters, according to the Algerian Press Service.
Japanese Vice Foreign Minister Minoru Kiuchi and officials from JGC, a Yokohama-based engineering firm, saw and identified the bodies of seven Japanese citizens killed in the crisis, Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga announced late Monday.
One Romanian lost his life while four others were freed, the country's foreign ministry said.
Three other British nationals and a UK resident are also "believed dead," according to British officials.
U.S. State Department spokesman Victoria Nuland on Monday said three Americans had been killed and identified them as Victor Lynn Lovelady, Gordon Lee Rowan and Frederick Buttaccio, who had been previously identified.
He said "we're in a compound in the middle of nowhere, and we've got security, and I'll be fine," Eckholm told CNN affiliate KNXV.