New York (CNN) -- The man who shot and killed two New York City police officers as they sat in their patrol car had posted angry messages on social media, ranting against the government and police, New York Police Department's Chief of Detectives Robert Boyce said Sunday.
The gunman's connection to Brooklyn is that his mother lives there, but they are also estranged, the chief of detectives said.
The officers, who were hit in head, were assigned from their normal downtown Brooklyn beat to an area of the borough with a high crime rate, authorities said.
It's horrible that someone gets shot dead just for being a police officer.
"We're just hopeful that this tragedy will not be in vain and that we will be able to heed the words of the Ramos family and bring the city together to heal," said U.S. Rep. Hakeem Jeffries, a Democrat who represents large sections of Brooklyn.
"They will join a line that is too long, a line of partners who served together and made the ultimate sacrifice together."
Andrew M. Cuomo directed that all flags on state government buildings in New York City be flown at half-staff.
"When a police officer is murdered, it tears at the foundation of our society," the mayor said.
Boyce said that there is no indication that Brinsley had any gang ties, and police have found no religious statements on social media accounts that investigators continue to pour through.
Brinsley later called the mother back and apologized for shooting her daughter, saying it was an accident and that he hoped she lived, Boyce said.
Baltimore authorities communicated to New York police Sunday at about 2:10 p.m. when Baltimore County police made a phone call to the 70th Precinct in New York to tell police there that the phone of a suspect wanted in Thompson's shooting was pinging at a location in the 70th Precinct.
He was also charged with property damage and obstructing a police officer and pleaded guilty to many of the charges, according to police and court records.
I know it's a war going on and shoutout to Eric Garner's family and everybody else who lost somebody, but you're not at his house, on his lawn.
The woman was referring to the controversial July death of the unarmed black man after New York police officers on Staten Island wrestled him to the ground, with one of the officers wrapping his arm around Garner's neck in a chokehold.
We must work together to bring peace to our communities," they said in a statement.
"Any use of the names of Eric Garner and Michael Brown, in connection with any violence or killing of police, is reprehensible and against the pursuit of justice in both cases," the statement said.
CNN's Ray Sanchez, David Shortell, Mariano Castillo and Kevin Liptak contributed to this report.