Benghazi, Libya (CNN) -- Doctors at a field hospital in Martyrs Square in Zawiya said Friday that 17 people were killed and another 150 were wounded when government forces attacked the city.
The casualties were announced shortly after Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi accused followers of al Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden of brainwashing the youth of Zawiya with hallucinogenic drugs, resulting in the unrest.
"They told me they are being shot at and they were doing it in self-defense," Gadhafi said.
"We are not like Egypt or Tunisia," he said, referring to two countries that have ousted their leaders in recent weeks.
"Here, the authority is in the hands of the people.
Some of the people involved in the opposition, he said, were detained by the United States in Guantanamo.
"I believe Zawiya will toe the line," he said, then directed his final comment to the city's residents themselves.
She called for other nations to impose a no-fly zone so that Kadhafi would not be able to fly in mercenaries.
Ten days into protests that have resulted in his loss of control of eastern Libya and led members of his government to defect, Gadhafi faced new international pressure Thursday.
Many seemed to be African mercenaries, but they may have been from the government or military, she said.
The Libyan government maintains tight control of communications and has not responded to repeated requests for access to the country.
Misrata -- sometimes spelled Misurata -- is in the hands of the opposition, who have driven out the mercenaries, witnesses and media reports said.
The only shooting that could be heard was celebratory gunfire.
"There's nobody walking in the street, nobody is trying to get out, even to look through the window," said a resident who, for security reasons, did not want to be identified.
Underscoring the growing distance between the Gadhafi regime and Libyan diplomats, the flag hanging outside the Libyan Mission to the United Nations in New York was the opposition flag; the regime's flag had been taken down.
The resolution would condemn "the massive and unacceptable violence currently being perpetrated in this country," French Foreign Minister Michele Alliot-Marie said Thursday in a statement.
"Our job is to give options from the military side, and that is what we are thinking about now," said the official, who declined to be identified because of the extremely sensitive nature of the situation.
Obama called French President Nicolas Sarkozy to discuss the situation, and both presidents "reiterated their demand for an immediate halt to the use of force against the civilian population," the French Embassy said.