"I remember seeing all the sand across the dash of the Humvee go up in the air.
"For some reason, I've always been able to see how lucky I am," he reflected, noting that his injuries made it possible to wear prosthetic legs.
Beatty spent a year recovering at Walter Reed Army Medical Center in Washington, and he hoped to build a house for his wife and two young sons when he returned home to Statesville, North Carolina.
The land was donated by Beatty's father, and volunteers pitched in to help while Beatty supervised.
When the house was finished, Beatty and Gallina decided to "pay it forward" to help other disabled veterans.
"There's thousands of veterans right here in our midst," Beatty said.
"The Gulf War vets have a lot of issues, and we know there are people who got hurt in Bosnia, Kosovo ... Vietnam," Beatty said.
Beatty and Gallina know that projects such as adding ramps or renovating bathrooms can make a big difference for veterans and their caregivers.
While the organization has built a couple of houses from the ground up, it has also developed a program that moves veterans into foreclosed properties donated by banks and municipalities.
His future home in South Euclid, Ohio, is still in the process of being renovated, but he's already feeling the benefits of the project.
When the renovation work is finished on these donated homes, the house is appraised and Purple Heart Homes will help the veteran get a mortgage for 50% or less of its value.
Beatty and Gallina say their new mission is more than just providing veterans with accessible homes; it's about encouraging communities to get involved with those who served their country.
I've seen the uniforms hanging in the closets," Beatty said.
The physical improvements made it easier for him to move about safely, and the goodwill gesture deeply touched Smith.
For Beatty and Gallina, their work is about giving all veterans the same level of respect.
"They just need to know that somebody does care about them.
Check out the Purple Heart Homes website at purplehearthomesusa.org and see how to help.