"I grew up in rural Alabama, in a poor area of the state," the three-term Republican noted during a recent interview in his Washington office.
Adding millions of newly legalized workers to the mix over the next few years will only hurt the most vulnerable segments of the work force, Sessions said.
Sessions recently sat down with CNN to discuss his role in leading the charge against the 844-page overhaul of the country's immigration laws.
During President George W. Bush's second term, he helped kill a proposed bipartisan immigration overhaul pushed by Sens.
Back then -- as now -- reform backers highlighted the glut of undocumented workers doing the toughest jobs on America's farms and elsewhere.
Sessions, however, insists the border can be fully secured, and that it was headed in that direction before Obama took office in 2009.
If changes made at the end of Bush's term "had been followed up on, we could have already had the border substantially secure."
He rails at a decision made by the authors of the bipartisan legislation to ignore a 1996 requirement for the use of biometrics -- such as fingerprints -- for visa holders at all entry and exit points.
Sessions also takes aim at language in the bill swapping the existing E-verify system -- an Internet-based program used to check the legal status of potential employees -- with a new one that relies more strongly on photographic matches through passport and driver's license images, among other things.
While the Republican Party may be divided over immigration reform, analysts are not surprised by Sessions' role as leader of the Senate opposition.
"Given the politics of Alabama, it doesn't surprise me at all," said Richard Fording, chairman of the University of Alabama's political science department.
As for political considerations on Capitol Hill, Sessions told CNN the "Gang of Eight" put its blueprint together using an "old fashioned, smoke-filled room strategy."
"They don't get to write a bill in secret, and we all roll over and have it passed without examination."
"I believe that, politically, at this point in time we should serve and listen to the concerns of the working Americans who are making $20,000 to $45,000 a year," Sessions said.
And so, if we end the illegality with a good, principled immigration bill, (if) we allow a generous but responsible flow of immigrants in the future, and if we improve the lives of working Americans, then that's the way you win elections."