As my eyes adjust to the dimming sky, I'll look across the street and see a flicker from behind the all-but-dead apple tree.
I may never be able to reduce the intensity or frequency of these bouts, but with time, experience, therapy and the love of some extraordinary people, I have learned that the blanket will eventually lift and I'll be able to feel alive again.
"Perhaps the worst part is how depression makes you hate yourself, no matter what you do.
I make good money, I have a good job, my wife is great, I have traveled the world, and I have a little daughter that is a ray of sunshine in my life.
"But, then there are times that the sky clears up, and life is just good.
... People have no idea the immense burden that you are carrying and you are judged as if you are normal."
"For me, it's not 'feeling sad'; it's like I can't feel anything -- just emotionless, tired, dull, uninterested in everything.
Children and adolescents (as I was when I was diagnosed) simply might not understand that there is a name for what they're feeling or have the language to articulate it to someone who might help.
Because so many of these are pretty standard markers of growing pains, the behavior is often dismissed as "just a phase," and kids are punished or tolerated but not treated.
According to Army data, 2012 saw a 22% increase in active-duty suicides, and in a study of 72 active-duty service members who had attempted to commit suicide, every single respondent selected "to stop bad feelings" as part of the reasoning for their attempt.
"And we are all about being strong in the Army."
Terrie Williams, author of "Black Pain: It Just Looks Like We're Not Hurting," says the silence is destroying the African-American community.
"I speak at a lot of churches, and I say, 'I know it was my God that led me to the right psychiatrist.'
Williams combats this with a packed touring schedule, addressing groups of African-American adolescents and professionals, speaking about her own experiences in an attempt to draw out people who may have experienced some of the same feelings and who may have never acknowledged it aloud -- let alone in front of a group of 700 people.
It was the first time they ever uttered it out loud, and as Williams says, "Each left there a different person."
Williams convinced one minister to slip the phrase, "When I was at my therapist's office ..." into his Sunday sermon.
There's definitely an energy you get from baring it all and realizing you're still accepted."