AZUZ: First up, we're talking about a new low for the price of homes in the United States.
And the comparison gets even worse when you go back a little farther.
Home prices affect a lot of other industries -- like banks, like construction -- so that's one of the big indicators that experts use to figure out how the U.S. economy is doing.
AZUZ: Officials in Germany are warning people there not to eat raw cucumbers, leaf lettuce, or tomatoes.
That's a bacteria that can be transmitted through contaminated food or water, especially raw vegetables.
Germany buys more Spanish fruits and vegetables than any other country.
What's the term for when energy travels in particles or waves?
That announcement came after a group of scientists analyzed studies that have been done on cell phone safety.
They weren't able to make any conclusions about other types of cancers.
Another unique source of help: an elephant from a circus that was supposed to perform in the area.
But the animal was able to use its strength to help workers clear heavy debris from some areas.
SCHUTTERS: Now, she's singing the national anthem at a memorial service for her classmates and the community.
SCHUTTERS: It was a somber afternoon as they gathered outside the school.
Eight people in the Joplin R-8 School District are confirmed dead: seven students and one staff member.
SCHUTTERS: Summer classes will begin as scheduled in less than three weeks, on June 13th.
I'm the Grand Canyon, a huge rock formation that's a mile deep.
But would the Canyon get even more visitors if American workers took as much vacation as employees in other countries?
Not for most American workers, who lag behind international counterparts in the vacation time given and the time taken.
With the economy still recovering, some workers are just happy to have a job to go to every day.
We're afraid of the work that's waiting for us when we get back from vacation.
And only one in three said they felt more comfortable taking a vacation this summer than they did last year.
This survey asked drivers from all 50 states 20 questions about basic driving knowledge.
We'll only send you something when we have something to say, like when one of our special summer shows goes up at CNNStudentNews.com.
So stay subscribed; we will not spam you, we promise!
A flock of sheep showed up in a California neighborhood, and they didn't want to go anywhere.
Or maybe they were hoping not to get noticed so they could pull the wool over everyone's eyes.
You can tell the year's winding up, because we're getting awfully punchy.