(CNN) -- A Somali Islamist militant movement on Monday claimed responsibility for a trio of bombings that killed at least 74 people Sunday at two venues in the Ugandan capital, Kampala, where crowds had gathered to watch the World Cup final.
"We are behind the attack because we are at war with them," Al-Shabaab spokesman Ali Mohamoud Rage told reporters at a news conference in Mogadishu, Somalia.
Earlier Monday, Sheikh Abu Al Zubeir, identified as "the emir of Al-Shabaab in Somalia," said in an Arabic website posting, "My message to the Ugandan and Burundian nations is that you will be the target for our retribution to the massacres perpetrated against the Somali men, women and children in Mogadishu by your forces."
The website set up a page Monday to "receive congratulations" on Al-Shabaab's behalf for the "blessed operations" in Uganda.
Kayihura said he could not confirm that Al-Shabaab was responsible, but said the nature of the explosives used were consistent with the group.
said Museveni, who on Monday visited a rugby sports center where two of the blasts occurred Sunday.
The second one at the rugby club was the most severe, said the official, who did not want to be identified because he was not authorized to speak to the media due to the sensitivity of the situation.
"Nate was not a glory-seeker and never sought the spotlight.
Crowley said five other Americans were hospitalized, and that two of them "have serious injuries requiring significant medical attention."
Crowley said a three-person FBI team is on the ground collecting evidence, with another team standing by ready to assist.
"The fact that the victims were enjoying the World Cup reveals the evil and ugly nature of the perpetrators and the need to uproot from [the] region those who do not value the sanctity of human life," the statement said.
Atwine said a second explosion struck the venue seconds later, knocking out power.
"Everyone is shocked, everyone is talking about it," said Mark Keith Muhumuza, who was watching the game at a stadium near the rubgy center explosion.
"You can never stop attacks in the world," said FIFA President Sepp Blatter.
Some of the injured at the restaurant included six members of an American church mission working with a local congregation, according to the Rev.
The African Union summit is scheduled to be held in Kampala next week.