There were the guys who lied about their age/height/marital status, the guy who said I was a dead ringer for his favorite blond sports reporter and would I mind putting on a fake newscast for him and my favorite, the guy who asked me not to use face cream because he had a phobia about moisturizers.
The Frisky: Cat gives birth to a dog?
Two weeks later, I was eating pre-date whole-wheat toast and deciding on outfit options: size 10 pencil skirt, black cashmere sweater, and boots.
I went to meet Mr. Could Be, and spotted a guy with a round, waffle-sized bald patch pacing outside the bar.
Some awkward gazing and polite chitchat later, he ordered two courses and a bottle of Pinot, and I ordered salad.
"I try and avoid that getting raped and robbed in the park after dark thing," I said.
I wanted to go home, and I crossed my eyes to see if he'd look better blurry.
And when the bill came, he let it sit there.
During our pat-on-the-back goodbye, he asked me about my workout schedule -- for the third time.
I sighed and mentally scribed the "thanks, but no thanks" message I'd write to him tomorrow.
(Far prettier than I am handsome!)
The task facing me has been to decide whether to simply say "I had a great time, but didn't feel any chemistry," or instead to say more.
This much is certain: You're beautiful, and there's certainly no health-related reason why you would want to change a thing about yourself.
I'm writing, though, because several factors--specifically, that phrase in my profile about me seeking "[someone] who'd like to move in that direction"; plus your frequent mentions of running; plus your markedly small dinner last night--leave open the possibility that you've decided to embark on and commit to a process of transformation.
Or how, on the second read-through, I had to run to the closest meeting room to hide.
And that poofball above your forehead isn't fooling anyone, so would you mind growing your hair back, and while you're at it, get some real shoulders, and stop being so rude to the nice waiter pouring our wine.
I sent your literary bile to my friends, who forwarded it to their respective boyfriends, husbands and mailmen, all of whom want to conduct a manhunt and slowly tear you into little pieces of Dan.
Dan doesn't deserve my heated words, or the three minutes of my life it'd take to write them.