For a monthly $4000 fee per child, their "total education management" package included extensive admissions counseling, arranging homestays, private tutoring, and extra-curricular activities, whereby Zimny and his team functioned as "parents away from parents" for their sons.
"When people are looking at the U.S. education system, it's seen as one of the best in the world," said Susan Joan Mauriello, an American who moved to Hong Kong in 2005 and quickly identified admissions consulting as a business opportunity.
"Especially when you send your children to the U.S., you want them to develop critical and creative thinking skills," she explained, adding that an American degree is seen by Hong Kongers as providing "increased opportunities for their children throughout the rest of their lives."
Now most companies have a full-time staff, they have their own offices, and it's all-year-round support," Po said, citing his annual client base as growing from four to up to 40 students.
The U.S.-based Independent Education Consultants Association (IECA) denounced Zimny as a "con artist," describing the monthly $8,000 fees for the two Chow sons as approximating "what should be a single fee, over a multi-year period, to work comprehensively with a student."
"While it is certainly possible that in individual cases an admissions consultant can be helpful to an applicant, we have encountered no evidence to indicate that is the case generally," said spokesperson Kevin Galvin.
E-mails submitted to the court reveal extensive discussions between Zimny and Loomis Chaffee boarding school officials over the 2007-08 academic year, regarding the wealth and likelihood of donations from the Chows.
Boarding schools conduct "intensive screening of applicants so they can assess who has the potential to donate money once the child is admitted, and then the development directors work feverishly to court the constituencies," Zimny said.
Zimny said his services can also include brokering introduction meetings between potential donors from Asia and development officials at U.S. universities, adding that schools welcomed these introductions as a way of fielding multitudes of donation requests.
Consultant Susan Joan Mauriello disagreed, saying she has heard of donations making a significant difference in admissions decisions only in "development cases," which involve families with multiple generations of alumni that have made significant donations over the years.
"The way to differentiate yourself is "that one line on your resume that says what university you came from," Capstone's Po said.