An hour after that, Maricelli was trying out for the Running Eagles squad, sprinting for fitness tests in the sweltering Georgia summer heat.
"But right when you're done, everyone is out of breath and looking all around, it's like 'yes, it was worth it.
Rather than rely on the controlling coaching aspect of football, rugby allowed Maricelli and his teammates to run the plays and run the game.
Unlike the University of Georgia football team, with its sold-out stadium of more than 92,000 fans any given fall Saturday, UGA Rugby barely has 100 fans, although both teams collide with well-known Southeastern Conference rival schools.
In the place of customized scooters, Nike team wear and logo-embossed gear, rugby players say they discover lasting friendships, passionate competition and the dynamics of a heavily skill-based game with a lifelong, global network.
Although some of the big colleges like Florida, South Carolina and Tennessee have fields designated for club rugby, the UGA team classifies itself as a "stepchild."
"We do everything as a team."
From field setup to team dinners, it's not hard to spot the UGA ruggers on campus.
"Rugby had the better social environment," Nizdil said.
"Unlike football, we don't want guys to travel for a weekend just to sit on the sidelines," said Rene Daniel, a rugby coach at Georgia Tech.
"I love football, so I went out to play rugby in college, and it was a big change, but it was addictive," said Willie Washington, a UGA senior.
You've really got to think and be smart with the ball."
"I had a player tell me after the season was over, 'Coach, this was the hardest thing I've ever done that I wouldn't trade for anything,' and I said, 'Well, that about sums it up, son.'
Collegiate club teams usually begin their season in the fall with a month of training to orient the "new guys," whether it is freshmen or those new to rugby in general.
Rugby is a true battle on the field, from the bloodied players who forge on without stopping to the one missed tackle that can cost the game in a breathless contest.
"There's nothing like giving 80 minutes on a Saturday to the game that you love," Burgess said.
"You're with 14 other guys in the arena against 15 guys that you're trying to beat the hell out of.