And I was oversized, much taller than the other girls -- and the boys for that matter.
It made me feel special to walk around the neighborhood with that nickname.
Nobody worried about such nonsense.
No one can ignore the mounting medical evidence that brain damage sustained in football, as well as other contact sports, is linked to serious health problems, including depression, dementia, suicide and death from respiratory problems.
You don't have to be a sports insider to understand that the tragic death of Junior Seau and the serious health problems of many retired NFL players demand changes in the way football is played.
Research, such as a study done by Boston University School of Medicine, has identified serious brain damage, or CTE -- chronic traumatic encephalopathy -- not only in the autopsied brains of professional football players but in at least one high school player's brain as well.
said Paige Hockman, whose oldest boy was a star player at Vestavia Hills High, a public school outside of Birmingham, Alabama.
If anything could be done on the kickoff where the momentum (would be) slowed down, I would be all for that," she said.
She is confident that the school is following the stringent injury policy mandated by the state of Alabama.
"It's very different in Podunk, Alabama, schools, where parents and coaches are less educated and more concerned about winning than safety for the children," Hockman said.
Change may come from schools like Vestavia Hills High, or even from the Pop Warner organization, the nation's oldest youth football and cheerleading program, where an estimated 250,000 kids play football across the country.
The group has set limits on how long each player can stay in a game and how much contact is allowed during practices.
Good luck selling those ideas to the NCAA or the NFL and its player unions -- or even some parents.
She might just become a superstar on her own field on the way to the Big Game.
The opinions in this commentary are solely those of Roxanne Jones.