With only 20,000 nerve cells -- compared with about 100 billion found in the human brain -- Aplysia are the perfect lab animals for brain researchers hoping to isolate a crucial connection.
His work has shown what genes are changed during the learning process, how these genes are altered and how the changes contribute to the growth of new connections in the brain.
Being a romantic, I started out with Alden Spencer to study the hippocampus.
But after a while, we realized that studying the cells in a region involved in memory is necessary but not sufficient.
And when we tried to see what comes into the hippocampus, we found it very complicated to analyze.
But if you have a long-term memory, you alter the expression of genes in the brain and you grow new synaptic connections.
So as I tell my friends, if you remember anything about this conversation, you will have a different brain than you started out with before the conversation.
If it finds through natural selection that some set of mechanisms work, it tends to retain those mechanisms in perpetuity.
I went to medical school after having decided to do so somewhere between my junior and senior year at Harvard -- very late.
I remember having dinner with my wife before we were married and telling her, 'You know, I can see doing this for the rest of my life, but it's ridiculous.
Kandel: Well, I think it's a fascinating problem because it's so central to everything we do.
But he would go into studio, and he'd be another person because for a gifted painter, painting is like an implicit skill.
But when he sat down at the piano, he could play almost as well as he ever did.
The other reason memory is so important is there is a number of a diseases that affect memory storage, and we'd like to know how they work so we can try to remedy them.
And it is so important that we understand it, not only to understand ourselves and who we are, but also to be able to overcome many of the miseries that affect the brain.
To see the president of the United States announce this first, in his State of the Union address, and then more recently at the White House -- and I had the privilege of being there -- is very exciting.
Kandel: We have a reasonably good understanding of the molecular underpinnings of age-related memory loss.
There are two possibilities -- one is that we're deceiving ourselves and our understanding is much less complete than we think it is.
We knew the anatomy a bit, we knew a lot from clinical insights, but we had very little insight into the underlying mechanism.
Moreover, the clinical benefits that we've gained out of what we've learned so far have been modest.