(CNN) -- "Hello 'true believers,' this is Stan Lee," said the world-renowned comic book creator as he filmed a video segment for CNN.com.
"I never really think of which [business offers] to take and turn down, because almost everything that's offered to me sounds like fun," he said.
"All of my life in comics I have worked with artists, so I've collaborated with them," said Lee.
I've been so lucky that I have found and worked with that caliber of people," he said.
His exaggerated speech patterns and confident posture make it hard to comprehend that he is nearly 88 years old.
By the early 1960s he was editor and chief writer at Marvel, leading what became known as the "Marvel revolution."
They were distinguished in the comic book world for their complex narratives and continuity -- they all saved lives in the same world, and in some cases crossed over into each other's storylines.
"I thought, even though these were action stories for comic books, I thought it would be rather interesting to the readers to have a third dimension to the stories, which I've always tried to do in a subtle way," he said.
X-Men characters "Professor X" and "Magneto," for example, struggled with opposing philosophies as mutant outsiders who were persecuted -- even outlawed -- which was a struggle that comic book readers could see similarly played out in real life on the evening news.
In all his comics, he wrote a column called, "Stan's Soapbox," as well as a page called "Bullpen Bulletins," in which he wrote directly to the reader, more like a letter from a friend than a letter from the editor.
"And I found, little by little the competition was using the same phrases.
It's an old English expression that means "Upward and onward to greater glory!"
But of course now that I'm mentioning it here over the air, everybody is going to start doing it and I'm going to be sorry I said this."
He has appeared uncredited as himself in movies like 2007's "The Fantastic Four: Rise of the Silver Surfer."
In 2005's "Fantastic Four" he appeared as Willie Lumpkin.
"That is, after I work on getting the movie academy to issue an Oscar for the best cameo of the year, and of course the television academy to do likewise," he said.