My first war assignment -- Bosnia, in the 1990s -- included visits to the Sarajevo morgue to see the bodies.
I learned that objectivity meant covering all sides and giving all sides their hearing, but never to draw a false moral equivalence when none exists.
Most of all, I learned that as reporters our words and our actions have consequences and that we must use this powerful platform, television, responsibly.
Or perhaps, ironically, as a result of it being the most documented event in modern history.
Genocide is mass murder with the intent to wipe out a significant part of an ethnic, religious or national group.
If there is any hopeful sign, it is in the voices of people with the emotional and intellectual courage to stand up and scream bloody murder -- often at personal or professional risk.
Like Peter Galbraith, an idealistic staff member on the U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee who wanted the U.S. to punish Saddam Hussein for using chemical weapons against the Kurds, they are convinced that the accounts of refugees are true.
Dallaire was one of those good men who put on a uniform and felt that it meant something, that he was actually there to make a difference.
He was helpless to stop the slaughter of 800,000 to 1 million ethnic Tutsis at the hands of their Hutu countrymen.
In the 1970s, the Carter administration touted human rights as a core value in U.S. foreign policy, but knew that military intervention against the Khmer Rouge in Cambodia was politically inconceivable after the disastrous war in Vietnam.
Watch Bosnia's president discuss the 1991 U.N. arms embargo on the former Yugoslavia »
And because we the press, the storytellers, finally made it impossible for our Western democratic governments to tolerate mass murder of men, women and children in the age of 24/7 satellite TV, 3½ years later, the U.S. led its allies in a pre-emptive strike against genocide in Kosovo.
And the question -- my question as a reporter and as a witness to history is: Will we ever learn?
They give me hope.