"His whole life at the moment is built around finding an extra yard here or there."
His specially crafted equipment, diet, gym workouts and coaching sessions are all based around him winning a battle of small margins against a legion of monster hitters.
As I waited for Miller to arrive, the staff had spoken in reverential tones of his hitting prowess.
Miller's longest drive in competition is a mammoth 474 yards.
In contrast, the club head speed of a distinctly amateur golfer (me, for example) is around 97mph, the ball taking off at a relatively pedestrian 145mph.
When Miller launches into his first drive on the range after a brief warm up, it is impossible to see the ball against the backdrop of a grey autumn sky.
The next one I catch sight of immediately and focus on intently for the best part of 10 seconds until it comes to rest some 415 yards away.
That has helped foster a dynamic design culture among the game's manufacturers, one that has helped grow the discipline of long driving enormously over the last five years.
"When you are swinging 150mph or over, clubs even three or four years ago, weren't designed to hold that.
It was a learning curve for my sponsor, Callaway, to produce something that's got a flat face and has to withstand ball speeds coming off at 220mph.
When I came back to the UK after winning the world championships in 2010 nobody, apart from the real fans of it, knew about it.
"He's been teaching for over 20 years and it's only now when you start looking at the bio mechanics of it and these tiny micro moves that are in a golf swing that you wouldn't see unless you have a trained eye.
Propped up on the ground behind Miller is a Flightscope box that records all sorts of information from his swing.
Doing it under pressure, in front of a 5,000 strong crowd at the Re-Max world championships, is next on the agenda, as Miller aims to recapture his crown.
There's only a limited crowd on show at Brocket Hall but we are still in awe of Miller's hitting prowess.
His lands 112 yards past the distance where mine finished and eventually comes to rest 397 yards away -- over 30 yards longer than the height of the London Shard.