NEW YORK (CNN) -- The man tapped as Afghanistan's next intelligence chief faces allegations of drug trafficking and torture that stem from his work as a powerful official in the rough-and-tumble Taliban-birthplace of Kandahar, according to testimony from a top Canadian diplomat and other sources familiar with the new appointee.
In 2009, Colvin testified before Canada's parliament that his team had uncovered "very credible" evidence of torture being used by Afghan authorities in Kandahar, which allegedly included Khalid's direct involvement.
When asked, he had sort of justifications for it, but he was known to personally torture people in that dungeon," said Colvin.
The investigation led to a new agreement in which Canadian officials were allowed greater access to Kandahar prisons, but it also shed light on the nature of NATO's partnerships in the volatile Afghan south.
But Human Rights Watch weighed in on Friday and called on the Afghan president to "drop reported plans to appoint a senior official linked to torture," referring to Khalid.
But it may have also cast Khalid as a more prominent figure leading up to the nation's presidential elections, which are slated for 2014.
"One possible course of action is that Karzai tries to retain power through a successor who is beholden to him -- sort of the Medvedev model," said Sarah Chayes, a senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, referring to how Russian President Vladimir Putin anointed Dmitry Medvedev as his successor in 2006.
"And he is also one of the only ministers I know to travel to Kandahar by road," a reference to the region's perilous roadways that are often lined with improvised explosives.
The U.N. Mission in Afghanistan estimates that torture has occurred with considerable frequency in Afghanistan, and says it is a particular problem within the country's intelligence services.
Afghan also noted that the regional NDS chief reported directly to both Kabul headquarters and to Khalid, a practice thought to be commonplace in Afghanistan.
For instance, a former Kandahar governor -- prior to Khalid -- had once maintained a private prison in Kandahar City across from his office, said Afghan, who noted residents were "constantly complaining to us" that they or their friends or their family members had been tortured.
Bismillah Khan Mohammedi, a well-connected Tajik leader with robust ties to the Afghan army and police, was tapped to head up the Defense Ministry, Karzai's office reported.
The cabinet shakeup comes just one month after Karzai earned international praise for a sweeping set of proposed reforms meant to stem corruption in the war-wracked country.
But his moves have also raised new questions about Afghanistan's rising political players, particularly those expected to take over in the wake of the NATO withdrawal.