Keenan Steiner makes his way along Charlotte's secured streets, struggling to put on his tie and manage his monogrammed backpack at the same time.
The groups hosting these events, Steiner says, hope to influence the outcome of the November elections -- as well as lawmakers' votes in Congress and state capitols.
The Planned Parenthood Action Fund, the group's political arm and official host of the party, has spent nearly $2 million during this year's election cycle -- most of it on negative ads against Republicans, according to the Center for Responsive Politics.
Here in Charlotte he doesn't have a ticket, but he sees a friend outside the Planned Parenthood party who helps.
A woman clutching one of the "We love Michelle" banners that had been handed out on the convention floor earlier in the evening keeps knocking it into people as she joyfully dances "The Electric Slide."
"It's not a party where you will rub shoulders with governors, and people aren't necessarily sowing the seeds for laws that will be written next year here like we've seen at some of the super-elite parties, but it still is important," Steiner says.
Pelosi talks about the Democrats' support for women's issues -- among the convention themes earlier that evening -- then encourages the crowd to support the president.
Andra Gillespie, a political science professor at Emory University who was in Charlotte to observe the convention, says parties such as this energize the base on particular issues.
"The fact that Pelosi is there gives them a chance to take a picture with her and then tweet it out or put it on their Facebook page.
In "A Salute to the House and Senate Energy and Commerce Committees," attendees could shag balls and take batting practice at Tropicana Field for a charitable donation.
It's midnight back in Charlotte before Steiner and Bartolomeo head out past streams of other party-hoppers and make their way to a swank hotel near the convention center.
Steiner doesn't have an invitation here either, but he blends into the crowd to make his way into the fancy ballroom.
Men with lapel pins identifying them as state legislators or congressmen make their way into the party.
"This is more a top-flight party than Planned Parenthood's, as the guest list is more exclusive and the food, drink and space itself is some of the most expensive I've seen," Steiner explains later.
He worries these parties play an outsized role at conventions.
"Yes, the delegates are here to nominate their candidate, but behind the scenes you have a lot of local candidates trying to make connections, meet potential fundraisers and backers.
He'd prefer not to stay out too late if possible; he's learned that a certain Super PAC is hosting a brunch at an undisclosed location in the morning.