(CNN) -- Guatemalan President Alvaro Colom should leave office during the investigation into whether he was connected to three recent slayings, his 2007 presidential opponent said Thursday.
The crisis started Monday with the surfacing of a video in which Guatemalan attorney Rodrigo Rosenberg said Colom, the president's wife and a top aide would be responsible if something happened to the lawyer.
He promised a full investigation and said he would accept international help, asking the U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation to become involved.
Perez said Vice President Jose Rafael Espada could take over until the investigation is complete.
"It is evident that [Rosenberg's video statement] was written by someone who has been in on this plan to destabilize the government and for reasons that I don't know, because I don't know why Mr. Rosenberg mentions us in that video," Colom said.
Some analysts say Colom needs to get the nation under control immediately.
Fernando Carrera Castro, a fiscal analyst and executive director of the Instituto Centroamericano de Estudios Fiscales, said the upheaval could further tear apart a poverty-ridden nation trying to heal from a deadly civil war.
"I fear that this crisis will lead to violence and destabilization of the government," Carrera said from Guatemala City.
Juan Tornoe, a Guatemalan who has lived in the United States for seven years, rejects what he says are efforts to forge a class divide.
And he said he went to high school with Gustavo Alejos, the presidential aide Rosenberg mentioned in the video.
The investigation, he said, will be handled by an independent attorney general who does not report to the president.
The meeting was not disclosed until reporters uncovered it and questioned Velasquez on his way out.
"They are in serious danger of becoming a failed state, if they're not already.
Rosenberg said the same thing in the video, bemoaning the "narcos, assassins and thieves" who have taken over the country.
The lawyer's niece, Mariela Rosenberg, said her uncle learned to accept his fate.