The revelations are sharpening Obama's dilemma as his White House considers whether to send "lethal" weapons, including anti-tank and anti-mortar systems to the outgunned Ukrainian armed forces.
In a sign of possible administration push back against Carter's remarks, the top NATO general Philip Breedlove told the Associated Press in an interview on Thursday that arming Ukraine could spark a "more strident" reaction from Russia.
The United States also wants to avoid a complete breakdown in ties and a return to the great power competition of the Soviet era, partly because it needs Russian help on key strategic issues, including nuclear talks with Iran, the chaos in the Middle East and in Afghanistan.
The top US diplomat also said that modern weapons, including rockets were flowing across the border into eastern Ukraine in breach of a peace deal signed by Russian, the Kiev government and separatists last year.
The aim would be to increase the military cost for Russia's activity in Ukraine in a bid to convince the Kremlin to seek a diplomatic way out.
That reality is fueling calls on both sides of the aisle in Congress for tougher US action.
White House officials declined to comment on the president's deliberations for this story.
The authors said that the West faced a critical moment with Russia -- saying that if Moscow succeeds in dismembering Ukraine, it could be emboldened to undermine the security order elsewhere in Europe.
The serious deterioration of Russia-U.S. relations can be seen by comparing the document to the previous national security strategy, released in 2010, which speaks of cooperation with "allies and partners around the world, including Russia and touts the achievements of Obama's first term "reset" of relations with the Kremlin.
As he ponders whether to risk worsening the relationship with Russia still further by arming Ukraine, Obama could face resistance on the world stage.
"The moment Putin thinks this weaponry is coming in, he could dramatically escalate things in a very dangerous way to take advantage of the current window," he said.