(CNN) -- The length of the Appalachian National Scenic Trail is constantly changing.
The route is marked by white blazes on trees, posts and rocks.
That's good, because that "day's hike" can be up to 30 miles, since shelters are built near sources of fresh water, King said.
On hikes from Georgia through Connecticut, I have seen hundreds of birds, chipmunks and squirrels, spiders, a few deer, two wild turkeys as big as a washer and dryer, a wild pig, the backside of a bear running into the brush, and a rattlesnake lying across the trail warming itself in the morning sun.
They congregate at shelters to feast on scraps left by hikers who don't follow the No.
That's why shelters have ropes to hang packs up and away from small critters.
That makes sense, since the Appalachian Trail, for the most part, follows the ridge of the Appalachian Mountains.
There are rocks you must climb over, rocks that stick out from the ground to slam your toes into or trip over, irregular rocks that force you to use foot and leg muscles to maintain balance with each step and rocks covered with mud or muck that are as slick as ice.
But on a steep downhill, your knee takes more impact.
The numbers are derived from sign-in sheets at either end of the trail and at conservancy headquarters at the unofficial midway point in Harpers Ferry, West Virginia, as well as from "ridge runners," who keep an eye on logbooks at shelters in their area.
Hikers usually are known by "trail names" they give themselves or earn, like Marty "Wounded Knee" Raffay (See "Downhill is worse than uphill").
Volunteers often give up some of their vacation so hikers can use some of theirs on the Appalachian Trail.
Anne Sharp, aka "Margolo," and Travis Olson, aka "Chaco Taco," are thru-hiking with Willett, a German shepherd, unofficially aka "Dog Quixote" (he occasionally chases imaginary threats in the woods, Sharp said).
One day hiking is better therapy than a year of visits to the shrink.
as the day's hike begins, we settle into a quiet time alone in the woods with our thoughts.
At my weight, 127 pounds soaking wet (which is what I was after a 16-mile hike in 14 miles of rain), carrying a 30-pound pack burns about 450 calories an hour.
"Samurai" was planning to catch up with some buddies at the next shelter when he ran into our group at the Wiley Shelter near Webatuck, New York.
The world is your toilet ... as long as it's a "cathole" at least 6 inches deep and 200 feet from a trail, campsite or water source.
The dirt, called "duff," is the layer of soil and mold just beneath the layer of leaves on the forest floor.