Of course, he wasn't the only sniper engaged in those epic battles of the Iraq War, but the legend of Kyle resonates with a wide American audience.
Despite all the talk of war's complications, Kyle's view of the Iraq War was unapologetically simplistic.
After completing four tours of duty in Iraq with at least 160 confirmed sniper kills, Kyle said he never had regrets about plying his deadly trade.
That historic operation spurred fascination with the inner workings and personalities that make up one of the U.S. military's most secret and elite forces, yet many military veterans are leery of all the attention Kyle has received.
"You remove Chris Kyle from the story, there's 20,000 other heroes that you can put in there," said CNN global affairs analyst James Reese, who runs Tiger Swan, a security consulting firm founded by ex-members of the U.S. Army's elite Delta Force.
In his autobiography, Kyle wrote about a confrontation with a celebrity whom he called "Scruff Face," later identified as former Minnesota Gov.
Kyle bragged about traveling into New Orleans in the days after Hurricane Katrina with a fellow sniper and shooting at least 30 looters from the roof of the Superdome.
The story ends with the police officers letting Kyle drive away.
He spoke with state and local law enforcement officials in three counties.
CNN asked Kyle's widow, Taya, to shed light on why her husband told these stories, but she declined the interview request.
While he was working to launch a security company -- Craft International, whose motto is, "Despite what your momma told you, violence does solve problems" -- Kyle dedicated much time to helping fellow veterans with mental health issues transition back to normal life after the battlefield.
"War one day; peace the next," Kyle wrote in his book.
For many of the military's elite, the decision to leave the battlefield is an excruciating one.
"And then at the same time, we're also being taught to think of ourselves as invincible bad asses.
CNN's Jason Morris contributed to this report.