Protesters also made their message clear at the presidential palace in Cairo, where thousands broke through a barricade and sprayed graffiti on the palace walls.
On Friday, Egyptian Vice President Mahmoud Mekki told CBC, a private Egyptian TV station, that Morsy would consider postponing the referendum, so long as there are no legal challenges to the postponement.
During his Thursday speech, the president condemned those involved in the clashes -- referring specifically to those with weapons and who are backed by members of the "corrupt ...
And minutes after the speech ended, the Muslim Brotherhood headquarters in Cairo was "ablaze," state TV reported, citing witnesses.
Such a call for action -- and the sustained presence in Tahrir Square -- suggests activists are undaunted by threats from Morsy and members of the Muslim Brotherhood, the Islamist group tied to him.
Adel Saeed, a spokesman for Egypt's newly appointed general prosecutor, said Friday morning that Hamdeen Sabahi, Mohamed ElBaradei and Amr Moussa are being investigated for allegedly "conspiring to topple" the government.
Specifically, they spoke of thugs with knives and rocks chasing activists, presidential backers belittling opponents and pressure from various quarters to go home and be quiet.
Opposition leaders have been clear in saying what would mollify them: Morsy must roll back his edict granting himself expanded presidential powers and must postpone a December 15 referendum on a proposed constitution, which they say doesn't adequately represent or protect all Egyptians.
Beyond the popular unrest, Morsy's inner circle was shaken when Rafik Habib, the deputy head of the Freedom and Justice Party, resigned Thursday, party spokesman Ahmed Sobe said.
His resignation brings to five the number of presidential advisers who have left in the past two days.
Vice President Mekki asked critics Wednesday to submit their proposals for improving the constitution, and Morsy invited political opponents to a meeting Saturday at the presidential palace.