The song was "Only in America," by the country duo Brooks & Dunn.
Politicians have long utilized campaign songs, but it is unusual for Republicans and Democrats to share the same song.
But "Only in America" has managed to transcend party lines; its lyrics, about the U.S. ideal of opportunity for all, seem to speak to a deeply held national belief, even a yearning, and the insistent opening guitar chords rivet an audience.
When Obama, late in the summer of 2008, finished his speech accepting his party's nomination for president in that packed Invesco Field football stadium in Denver, there was the Brooks & Dunn song booming out of the speakers, becoming the soundtrack of the historic moment.
But last week I was able to get in touch with both Kix Brooks and Ronnie Dunn, and in separate conversations we talked about what having their song become the go-to anthem for presidential candidates means.
When, in 2008, the song began to be heard at rallies for both sides (neither candidate had asked for their permission), he and Brooks made the decision not to say anything publicly about their private political preferences: "We kind of laid low.
When good fortune unexpectedly comes raining down on you, the last thing you want to do is reach for an umbrella.
Kix Brooks, who is completing his own solo album and also hosts the syndicated radio show "American Country Countdown," told me, "The song was never Republican or Democrat.
Campaign songs have always been a tradition with presidential candidates -- "Marching with McKinley" for William McKinley, "He's All Right" for Benjamin Harrison, "Get On a Raft with Taft" for William Howard Taft, "Keep Cool and Keep Coolidge" for Calvin Coolidge -- but only in recent years have songs that are already big hits, and that were not written for a candidate, been made a regular part of campaign playlists.
"If the candidates want our song to come out of their speakers, it's fine with me," said Brooks, who was born in Shreveport, Louisiana, during Dwight D. Eisenhower's first term.
The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Bob Greene.