And then, the stage door opens, and a smiling celebrity walks out towards the camera.
So it's no surprise that the best hosts typically come out of the gate revving on all cylinders.
Throughout the show's season, the most recent host was pitted against the four most popular previous hosts in a vote, and the one with the least number of voters was eliminated while the four survivors advanced to the next week.
I mean, it's possible they were terrified underneath, but once the show began, all six of them were giggly and daring and totally committed.
It helps, of course, if you think CK is a comic genius, but even if you're not tuned in to his brand of comedy, his first time hosting had a refreshingly off-beat vibe.
CK lasted a few weeks in our voting contest before being eliminated by Jeremy Renner, but if he hosts again next year he's a total must-watch, especially with one show under his belt.
Less than a month after hosting the season premiere, the Academy Awards announced that the creative force behind "Family Guy" and "Ted" would host Hollywood's biggest night.
I'll admit it is sorta funny when someone like quarterback Tom Brady tries something this outlandish, but if you're an entertainer to start with, you have to be a-maze-ing at singing or dancing to get me to give two hoots about your hidden talent.
But as time went on, he seemed perfectly in control.
If you weren't a viewer of Showtime's "Homeland," which stars Claire Danes as an unstable CIA operative intimately involved with her most dangerous suspect, this sketch was likely four minutes of scrunched noses and raised eyebrows.
The show occurred at the center of a Timberlake promotional blitz that was anything but subtle — he even spent an entire week on "Late Night" with his "History of Rap" partner Jimmy Fallon.
On his much-hyped return to "SNL," he dominated the cold-open as Elton John, reunited with Andy Samberg to meet two wild and crazy Czechoslovakian brothers, and brought his foam mascot get-up to Veganville.
Bill Hader will be missed, and I suspect he'll want to take some time before he returns to the show as a host.