"But given the stalemate in Congress, our focus is on steps that we can take to make sure criminals and others who should not have those guns, make sure that they cannot obtain them."
For that reason, both campaigns had generally ignored it, despite mass killings in recent years -- a gunman who killed 32 people at Virginia Tech in 2007 and another who killed six people and wounded 13 others, including Democratic Rep. Gabrielle Giffords, last year in Arizona.
"I also believe that a lot of gun owners would agree that AK-47s belong in the hands of soldiers, not in the hands of criminals," Obama said.
"Soothing words are nice, but maybe it's time that the two people who want to be president of the United States stand up and tell us what they are going to do about it, because this is obviously a problem across the country," said Bloomberg, an independent who supports gun control.
Some conservatives also called for action, with media mogul Rupert Murdoch tweeting after last week's shootings that "we have to do something about gun controls" while Fox host Bill O'Reilly said in a July 23 commentary that Congress should pass laws requiring that sales of heavy weapons be reported to the FBI and imposing mandatory 10-year sentences on any crime committed with a gun.
Two months later, the president wrote an opinion piece that acknowledged the importance of the Second Amendment and called for focusing on "effective steps that will actually keep those irresponsible, law-breaking few from getting their hands on a gun in the first place."
However, Obama supported a tougher platform when he ran for president in 2008 that included reinstituting the assault weapons ban, stopping destruction of background check documents and closing the federal gun show loophole.
"What we're asking for is the voice of the American public to engage in this issue and to hold our leaders accountable," Gross told reporters.
"They relied on that to make the case but were up against a very powerful but very well-disciplined and skillful army that was good at taking those arguments apart."
Referring to suspect James Holmes in the latest Colorado killings, Romney said: "A lot of what this young man did was clearly against the law.
Gun owners and collectors also reject the contention that tougher controls will solve the problem.