Washington (CNN) -- Over the next few days, the drama of a potential government shutdown will collide with the promise of a new health insurance system known as Obamacare.
Second, the U.S. government might "shut down" if lawmakers can't agree to pass a funding bill that has attached to it a provision to defund Obamacare.
Congress' research arm, the Congressional Research service, prepared a memo for Republican Sen. Tom Coburn, R-Oklahoma, that suggested an effort to use the government shutdown as leverage to force Democrats to delay implementing the law would not really work because the law will continue regardless of a shutdown.
Do I have to sign up for a new health insurance plan on October 1 when open enrollment for Obamacare begins?
1 way Americans get health insurance -- go on about your business.
These employers would have to pay a per-worker fine to the government, but it might be cheaper for them in the long run to pay this fine to the government rather than offer insurance.
However, if you get health insurance at work, you could probably drop that coverage and buy health insurance on the Obamacare exchanges.
One big test of this promise is Medicare Advantage.
This could lead to changes in Medicare Advantage options, like gym memberships and other items that are offered as enticements.
If you get your insurance from one of the 50 state-run Medicaid programs, Obamacare should not affect you.
So, you might have to buy a more expensive plan.
Check out your new state health insurance exchange or the one the federal government set up in your state if your state government refused to do so.
They're going to get more robust insurance plans that cover more things.
If you're single and you make less than $15,281.70 ($31,321.50 for a family of four), you're likely to get Medicaid, although some states have refused to expand their programs.
What if you make more than $15,281.70, but not that much more?
You don't have employer-sponsored health insurance and you do want coverage.
Those costs will vary depending on the age and number of family members and the level of plan they choose to buy.
These are places -- online, mostly -- where people who don't get insurance can buy it from a private company.
You don't really want health insurance.
The Supreme Court called this fine a tax.
Or you can view it as an upfront payment for having hospital and ambulance services able to come get you if you need them.