In less than a minute, either of them can spew a list of ideas to fill a travel itinerary focused on romance, family, business or Southern culture, including directions, prices, operating hours, weather conditions and insider tips.
"Whether on business or leisure travel, no one wants to spend too much time trying to coordinate, plan, organize, et cetera," said Jeanne Mills, president of the U.S. branch of Les Clefs d'Or (The Gold Keys), an international organization of professional concierges with more than 3,000 members worldwide.
"My favorite part of the job is the reward that comes with playing an instrumental part of so many special moments in people's lives.
He makes every effort to overcome misconceptions about the job, such as the belief that the main purpose of a concierge is to make reservations and hand out maps.
"Never hesitate to go to your concierge, even if you think your request is impossible," said Breve, who has been making the impossible possible for more than 25 years, primarily as senior concierge at the Ritz-Carlton on Canal Street.
She says she feels honored to be an ambassador not only for the hotel but for the city of New Orleans -- and she has no fear of being replaced by an Internet search engine.
Even so, many frequent travelers say they have never ventured to the concierge desk.
Cash tips are appropriate, especially if you are asking for more than directions or help with an easy dinner reservation.
Jeff Brooks, a New Jersey-based financial consultant, says most of his business travel details are worked out in-house, but he'll never forget the concierge who helped him skate off thin ice one February.
That's in line with recommendations from hotel guru Glenn Haussman of Hotelinteractive.com, who says special requests merit a tip of at least $10 or $20, depending on time spent.
Fashion stylist Cathie Arquilla often travels for business, but she's always been wary of using a concierge.
One high profile guest at the Ritz-Carlton New Orleans called ahead to request that all the furniture in his room be set up so that he was always facing east, whenever sitting or lying down.
One of Breve's most memorable non-celebrity requests came to her at 11 a.m. on a busy Saturday.
Passers-by thought they were filming a scene from a movie.
Reality: They serve anyone visiting the hotel for any reason, and hotel guests can start the process upon booking.
Many people assume the concierge desk is available only once you've arrived at your destination.
In medieval times, they may have held the candles and the keys, but the modern-day concierge is an expert at guarding items even more precious: guest sanity and satisfaction.