Fourteen months after giving up his chairmanship of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee to become America's top diplomat, Secretary of State John Kerry faced harsh criticism Tuesday from the panel he used to lead.
I don't care," Kerry said when Republican Sen. John McCain of Arizona, a committee veteran, complained of what he predicted would be failed diplomatic efforts on Syria, Iran and Middle East peace.
Last September, the panel voted 10-7 in favor of a resolution authorizing President Barack Obama to launch a limited military strike on Syria intended to deter the regime of President Bashar al-Assad from using chemical weapons.
Obama has rejected any chance of U.S. troops joining the Syrian fight, but Kerry said the President believes arming the opposition could change the Syrian leader's "calculation" of how the conflict will proceed.
Obama had decided back then to attack, Kerry said, and the President's resolve led to the agreement brokered by Russia for Iran to turn over its chemical weapon stockpiles to international control.
"We came up with a better solution -- to get all of them out by working through the diplomatic channel with Russia, and we have an agreement which is now working out with 54% removed" so far, Kerry said to Corker.
Taking umbrage at any notion that Obama lacked the backbone to stand up to Russian President Vladimir Putin, Kerry declared that "I do not doubt this president's resolve one iota" while also noting that further steps against Russia would impact the global economy.
Kerry responded with his insistence that any final deal with Iran must include proof through verification that an Iranian nuclear energy program would only be capable of peaceful use.
The effort appeared stalled or even broken last week when Israel refused to carry out a planned prisoner release and announced 700 new settlement units in Jerusalem while the Palestinians sought recognition from international bodies as part of a unilateral bid for statehood recognition.
McCain rejected that, telling Kerry: "It is stopped.
It's a tough issue, but your friend, Teddy Roosevelt, also said that the credit belongs to the people who are in the arena who are trying to get things done, and we're trying to get something done."