The most senior Syrian diplomat to defect and publicly embrace his country's uprising is calling for a foreign military intervention to topple President Bashar al-Assad.
"I was at the top of the Syrian regime," Fares said in his first interview with a U.S.-based TV network since his defection.
Damascus confirmed news of Fares' defection in a short article published by Syria's state news agency SANA, which announced that the ambassador had effectively been fired for leaving the Syrian Embassy in Baghdad without official authorization.
In an interview that lasted for nearly two hours in the gilded halls of a luxury hotel in the Qatari capital, Fares laid the blame for large-scale allegations of human rights abuses in Syria squarely at the feet of the country's president.
"We don't reject him because we want everyone to quit the ship," said former Syrian National Council chairman Burhan Ghalioun, who spoke to CNN in the lobby of the same Doha hotel where Fares was staying under Qatari protection.
The activist was referring to Gen. Manaf Tlas.
Instead, he accused Damascus of cooperating closely with al Qaeda militants, ever since the U.S. invasion of neighboring Iraq in 2003.
The militants started coming from all over the world through Syria, under the eyes of the Syrian secret police, which are directly responsible for the killing of thousands of Iraqis in Iraq as well as Americans and coalition forces.
"This emerging al Qaeda operational presence in country bolsters our own argument that the sooner al-Assad leaves, the better," said the official, noting that that the current al Qaeda-linked effort in Syria is small and not representative of either the opposition or the broader population.
U.S. officials later told CNN that special forces soldiers and helicopter gunships targeted an Iraqi man named Abu Ghadiya, who they called "the top facilitator of al Qaeda foreign fighters into Iraq."
A conversation took place between me and him ... and he was angry about the attack made against al Sukariya and he was kind of scared," Fares recalled.
But he had a message to the Syrian president and his former colleagues in the government.
... History will curse you for the crimes you committed in Syria."