It was 1997 and on a whim we went into Manhattan to see the ball drop on New Year's Eve in Times Square.
On what had to be the coldest night in the history of the ball drop, we shivered next to each other waiting patiently, with a few thousand spectators, to get one year closer to the millennium.
Literally, behind us in Central Park fireworks set the sky ablaze to commemorate the 100th anniversary of the five boroughs constituting New York City.
The culture on the job, coupled with his solid self-righteousness and Old World thinking, led to an intense hatred of anything "different."
My mom, who moved to New York from Iowa, was indifferent on race but wasn't about to challenge my dad's way of thinking.
We had already, by that point, said we loved each other and knew this was something special.
Alex and I danced through the night and left the next day for the customary fun weekend to the Jersey Shore with my classmates.
Saying a nuclear bomb went off in my family would not begin to describe what happened.
No way was his daughter going to date a black man.
It went on for hours, and he said a lot more, but I had shut my brain off after the first few minutes.
From what I'd heard about Alex's parents, it sounded like we were on track to repeat history.
I knew Alex was "the one," and I wasn't about to let my racist father get in the way of my happiness.
Alex and I had milestones, we went to friends' weddings, became honorary aunts and uncles.
My colleagues knew what was going on and encouraged me to talk to my dad again, this time as a strong adult woman who was succeeding in a career and no longer financially dependent on my parents.
I told my dad I understood he was trying to protect his daughter, but he should have trusted me to make the right decision for myself.
After eight years of tears and anxiety, my dad conceded.
I don't think he had one "aha" moment, but maybe it just took years of rolling it over in his head and realizing that his preconceived notions of what would happen to me if I dated Alex were wrong.
It almost seems like the lying, the hurt and the drama happened to someone else.
Sometimes my dad will jokingly refer to him as "chocolate milk" or "Barack Obama," maybe as way of relieving some tension around the intense hatred he had once possessed.
Cheesy as it sounds, I think I'll tell them that love really conquers all, and time, with a dash of patience, heals many wounds.
And I'll make sure not to censor anything, because they deserve to know how we found a way to break through hatred to find acceptance.