In special circumstances, they may find their destiny, and seek to heal the world and make all of us stronger.
On June 12, 1963, Evers, who fought against discrimination and segregation and led voter registration efforts, was assassinated by a white supremacist named Byron De La Beckwith, a founder of the state's White Citizens Council.
Evers' murder received national attention and was a factor leading to the passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.
Evers-Williams served on the NAACP board for 30 years and was awarded the organization's Spingarn medal, served as editor of "The Autobiography of Medgar Evers: A Hero's Life and Legacy Revealed Through His Writings, Letters, and Speeches", and through the establishment of the Medgar and Myrlie Evers Institute, she has kept his legacy alive.
Martin, 17, was visiting his father, and Zimmerman, who is a Latino of Afro-Peruvian and German ancestry, claimed Martin looked suspicious and killed the black teen, invoking self-defense.
Sybrina Fulton realized the need to fight not only for justice for her own son, but also for other families and their children as well.
"We have to speak out for those people, just like Trayvon, and just like Dr. King, and just like Medgar; they were sacrifices for better lives in a better world."
Further, the judge's instructions to the jury included mention of the law.
Then and now, African-Americans have faced lynching at the hands of white men, whether police officers, self-proclaimed cops, vigilantes, mobs or domestic terrorists who were empowered to take matters into their own hands.
The regime of Jim Crow segregation was an attempt to block the full freedom of black Americans and stifle their aspirations, backed by the authority of the government and the courts, and secured through the threat of violence.
Meanwhile, in the midst of a nascent, multiracial #BlackLivesMatter movement led by black women, Myrlie Evers-Williams and Sybrina Fulton continue the struggle and teach a new generation of leaders.
During Black History Month, we are reminded that civil rights martyrs become catalysts for new movements.