African immigrants to the United States say cartoonish caricatures and a Western media penchant for reporting on Africa's disease, hunger and war -- rather than the continent's successes -- trivialize their cultures.
They concede, though, the myths run both ways and some say they were surprised to find their values more often aligned with those of white Americans than African-Americans.
She works in a hair-braiding salon and has met African-Americans who share her values of hard work and family, but in most cases, "we are raised differently, taught different values and held up to a different moral code."
"I came down from South Africa and so many people thought that maybe that's a jungle or maybe I'd go out chasing lions or something like that," he said.
He saw many signs of modernity, including Mercedes and other brands of cars found in the United States.
The recent Georgia Tech graduate said he considers himself Nigerian because his parents -- both from the village of Uga -- instilled in their four children strong Nigerian values of family, community, spirituality and self-betterment.
In Athens, Ezeamuzie found his ideals at odds with those who shared his skin color at Clarke Central High School, his first stint in a public school.
He didn't understand the de facto lunchroom segregation or the accusing glances he got for eating with white classmates.
He found clothes akin to what he saw many African-Americans wearing --- baggy pants and an oversized T-shirt.
Ezeamuzie and other Africans say they feel African-Americans too often dwell on slavery and the racism that has persisted for more than a century since the Emancipation Proclamation.
"Now that we are free, holding on to the sins of white men who have long died and gone to meet their maker is more torture than anything we have suffered."
He considers himself African-American, but "it does not mean that I have already assimilated into the culture."
iReporter Emeka Aniukwu, 35, hails from Ebenebe, Nigeria, and said he has heard all the American misperceptions about Africa, but the cure to ignorance is communication.
"Talk to people, stop showing ugly face and don't be shy about your accent," he advised African immigrants.
"You have the African students tell me that they have learned so much about standing up from the African-American students, and the African-American students said they've learned how to simmer down, so it's a wonderful thing," Nichols said.
Numbers from the University of Georgia's Selig Center of Economic Growth indicate the number is just behind the nation's Native American community, which had $61.8 billion in buying power last year.
iReporter Faraji Goredenna, 53, of Layton, Utah, said he encourages African-Americans to learn more about Africa and lend a hand to Africans so they know "America's institutions and opportunities are open to them, too."
CNN's Jackie Adams contributed to this report.