Aasta, Norway (CNN) -- Three rapid blasts echoed across the Norwegian countryside on Tuesday as police detonated explosives found at a farm owned by the suspect in last week's bloodbath in Oslo and the island of Utoya.
Another eight died in a bombing outside government offices in Oslo earlier that day.
Norwegian police released the first few names of victims of the attacks Tuesday afternoon.
During a closed court hearing Monday, the 32-year-old suspect said the attacks were necessary to prevent the "colonization" of Norway by Muslims, the presiding judge, Kim Heger, said.
Forensic scientists are still searching Utoya for clues, and the island will remain closed to the public for at least two weeks, Norwegian Police Chief Sveinung Sponheim said.
Other countries are involved in the Norwegian investigation into last week's attacks, police said in response to a question about Breivik's claim to have been in contact with terror cells abroad.
Meanwhile, U.S. President Barack Obama and Vice President Joe Biden visited the Norwegian ambassador's residence in Washington Tuesday to "offer condolences to the people of Norway after the tragic killings that occurred last week," according to a White House statement.
He must be," the father said in response to a reporter's question about whether he thought his son was mentally ill.
"I would like to say that I feel an incredible grief and despair over what has happened.
Jens Breivik, who was interviewed at his home in France, said he would not be visiting his son as the legal process continues.
Eskil Peterson, a leader of the Labour Party's youth movement, the AUF, said the party had first been shocked and now was mourning those killed.
According to Heger, Breivik said he worked with two cells to launch the attacks, the deadliest onslaught in Norway since World War II.
Breivik is now "very tired" because of his circumstances, he said, but he was not injured when he was taken into police custody.
"Later, it became more extreme, and I remember after we all got on Facebook, I became friends with him there," Andersen said.
CNN has not independently confirmed that Breivik is the author of the manifesto, which bears his name and says it is intended to be circulated among sympathizers.
It contains photographs of Breivik wearing what appears to be a military uniform that features an altered U.S. Marine Corps dress jacket with medals of the Knights Templar -- an order of Christian Crusaders who helped fight against Muslim rule of the Holy Land in the Middle Ages, but which was shut down 700 years ago.
He described the organization as an armed Christian order, fighting to rid the West of Islamic suppression, the newspaper said.