"I would like to express to the men and women serving our country and to the members of this committee, Chase's deepest regret over the mistakes we've made in applying these protections.
I commit to you that we will get this right," Stephanie Mudick, an executive vice president in JPMorgan Chase's Office of Consumer Practices, told the House Committee on Veterans Affairs Wednesday.
Mudick blamed much of JPMorgan Chase's mistakes on human error, citing the complexity of reading military orders that are needed to prove active duty service, and problems with not coding SCRA cases to reflect their eligibility for the interest cap and foreclosure prevention benefits.
"That is the weakest answer I have ever heard given in front of this committee, that we couldn't read the military orders, coming from one of the largest financial institutions in the world," he said.
He pointed out that Chase seemed to have no problem creating a 63-page document "to calculate interest to the exact penny," but then claimed to not be able to understand a military order.
They include a centralized unit set up to specialize in SCRA loans, with employees trained in reading military orders, as well as a new hotline staffed by employees trained specifically on how to answer SCRA borrower questions.
Lawmakers also faulted the Defense Department for not staying on top of the banks with regards to the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act.
The committee's concerns that banks are not taking the civil relief act seriously enough were echoed in the testimony of one attorney representing service members in a class action lawsuit against Chase.
The attorney charged that stiffer sanctions should be applied to those who break the law, including upgrading the crime of knowingly not complying with SCRA from a misdemeanor to a felony, removing the one-year sentence cap associated with it, imposing civil fines, and providing for the recovery of attorney fees.
A recent Defense Department study showed that service members consider their finances to be the second largest source of stress in their lives, ahead of deployments, health, family and war.