His mother, Johanna Whittlesey, like other parents across the country, assumed her child had enough water, but nutrition advocates believe schoolchildren's access to water is a national problem the federal government has only begun to address.
"Since children spend a large percent of their waking hours at school, they should be consuming at least one-half their total water intake at school," says Dr. Melina Jampolis, CNNHealth's Diet and Fitness Expert.
Advocates welcome the new legislation but say it's not clear if the new rules will go far enough to address the lack of hydration.
"As part of the Healthy, Hunger-Free Kids Act, the USDA will be engaging in a dialogue with schools and communities as we develop a proposed rule to implement this provision of the law," the USDA says.
Advocates say, and many educators admit, that too many of America's largest school districts elect not to provide cups.
In the New York City Department of Education, the largest school district in the country by number of students, cups are "generally available to all students," but spokesperson Margie Feinberg cannot say in which of its schools cups are available only upon request.
Educators say that providing cups can get expensive and take too much of their already dwindling school budgets.
It's called a water intervention -- a five-week research program that includes a water filter and cups for five schools in the Los Angeles school district, provided free from the UCLA/RAND project.
The test includes these steps: Install a water filter in the school.
Now that the research has ended, it's up to the school district to continue funding if it so chooses, but the Los Angeles Unified School District says it cannot afford the estimated $1.8 million to $2.3 million annually it says it would cost to provide the cups and water for the entire district.
Researchers in Germany found that by installing a cooled, filtered water fountain with plain or optionally carbonated water, providing children with water bottles, educating them on the importance of drinking water and encouraging them to fill up their water bottles, they were able to reduce the risk of children becoming overweight by 31%.
David Binkle, deputy director of Los Angeles school district food services, would like the federal government to help pay for water instead of only mandating that water be made available.
"I wouldn't really drink water because it's sort of hard to be eating your meal and then stop and go drink water at the water fountain," she said.
"Water maybe has always been insufficiently available, but schools have a unique and special responsibility to create an environment that makes it easy for students to make good choices," says Sharp of the California Food Policy Advocates.
"It is documented that if we provide the choices for them they will really go for it."