(CNN) -- Foxconn, the high-profile electronics company that builds Apple's iPhone and other products in China, is back in the headlines after workers rioted at its Taiyaun factory.
Yet both are enormously successful, causing many people to question whether the popular management advice in favor of "openness" actually makes business sense.
I believe a company can benefit by sharing some of its intellectual property given the right conditions.
Apple has become more open in a number of areas, and the pressures of the market forces I describe are forcing it to open up even further.
But as it tries to expand its share of the corporate market, business customers will demand to be well briefed regarding Apple's intentions and its product road maps.
It hopes to release the product early next year, and it is trying feverishly to pump up the buzz around the software to encourage its customers to stay loyal and developers to make apps.
But such opacity does not derive from some inherent benefits of closed work systems.
True, this visibility had not extended to the rest of the world, but in this age of transparency Apple can no longer keep its supply chain practices secret.
As a result, everyone knows about Foxconn's labor relations and how its factories are run under tight security and employees are treated and compensated poorly.
As for transparency with its shareholders, Apple is actually very open -- respected as being one of the best companies on the planet for providing shareholders with pertinent information.
To be sure, Apple is obsessed with guarding its intellectual property and has sought refuge in outmoded intellectual property laws and in courts that today stifle innovation in our economy.
Google was smart to release the Android software's inner workings so that manufacturers could tweak the operating system to their specific devices.
It has long provided lower-cost computers to schools and universities, but purely as a marketing strategy, and otherwise has done little to help America's education system.
But when you look under the surface, it is more open than you might think, and there is no real evidence that its secrecy has helped it succeed.
The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Don Tapscott.