Anyone who saw baseball's Kansas City Royals fight their way into the World Series for the first time since 1985, only to lose to the San Francisco Giants in Game 7 Wednesday night, was reminded that losers have been known to turn into winners.
Projections that the Cleveland Cavaliers could meet the Los Angeles Clippers for the National Basketball Association's next championship have not as yet been met with a ha-ha-ha, you-kill-me kind of maniacal laugh.
A question of whether the Detroit Lions could finally make it to a Super Bowl now exists, halfway through this National Football League season, without the requisite rolling of eyeballs or a yeah, yeah, yeah, when-pigs-fly kind of reply.
Kansas City had not been to a World Series for 29 years, but finally got its act together this fall.
Los Angeles' hockey team endured decades without claiming a Stanley Cup, but now has drunk out of two of the last three.
No one fears the New York Yankees nowadays; they are pretty much just another pretty good team.
He went south to Miami for a few winters, turned the Heat into a hot property, then decided that he longed to return to his native Ohio, where he would try to win the Cavs a crown at last.
More than likely, this season's Lions will retreat tails between legs to lick their wounds, as they do year after year.
Who's to say that after Katy Perry sings at halftime, the team from Motown won't win on Super Bowl Sunday and have Detroiters dancin' in the streets?
No team has been in the National Hockey League as long as this one has without winning a Stanley Cup at least once.
Alas, out on a sour note they went, in the opening round of the playoffs.
Even after losing two star players, Manny Machado and Chris Davis, at an inopportune time, the Orioles could have gone all the way.
On the other hand, these are still the Clippers, who have been demonstrating a million ways to die in the West since long before a Seth MacFarlane movie by that name came out.
Hard to believe this franchise, football royalty, has never been to a Super Bowl even once.
Maybe they can ask Kevin Costner, who played the Browns' general manager in the 2014 movie "Draft Day," to join them on Super Bowl Sunday 2015, if truth turns out to be stranger than fiction.
Not a single Stanley Cup for this franchise, founded in 1970.
Time for the Sabres to stop fouling up in front of their fed-up fans.
The answer is: Seattle's Mariners, one of the true underachieving organizations of all time.
It's a long, long way from contender to champ, but maybe Jackson can figure out what his Madison Square Garden predecessors have not.
It's a franchise that's been to only one Super Bowl, which it lost 49-26.
A franchise that won 13 Stanley Cups ought to be able to win a 14th somehow, sometime.
When you go 106 years without a championship, you are not Cinderella finally going to the ball; you are Cinderella still scrubbing the floors.
Good things do happen to bad teams.