The massive pillars, looking like tree trunks, stone chameleons, tortoises and turtles, help support the columns.
More than 40 years after the eccentric and revered architect's death -- he was struck by a tram -- work still continues on the huge church first begun in 1882.
Luckily, Gaudi had made plaster models of the church (we see them in the museum at the site) and though they were also smashed, his supporters were able to painstakingly put them back together so the work could continue.
Sometimes, you have to know when to call it quits, even at incredible sites like this one.
It's a garden city with fantastically shaped roofs, a house that looks as if it's made out of candy, and the famous serpentine bench made out of broken mosaic.
In recent years, it's become a favorite of American families who board cruise ships here in summer -- as we did last year.
And with such friendly locals, there's no better place for the kids to practice their Spanish.
Walk off your jet lag by taking in all the chic couples walking along the beach, the city's famous art nouveau architecture, the art, (Picasso lived here as a teen), the ancient Gothic Quarter and the street entertainers along the mile-long Las Ramblas.
The kids will give a thumbs up to Montjuic, one of Barcelona's largest recreation areas, which rises nearly 700 feet above the south side of the city.
It's housed in three spectacular stone mansions in the historic quarter of the city and showcases works from the artist's early years, his Blue Period and early works from Barcelona.
That night, after we hit the pool, we head to Bestial, which the hotel concierge told us is a "hip" gathering spot for locals.
From its earliest days, Barcelona has been linked to France, thus the emphasis here on Catalan -- Catalonia lies midway between France and Spain.
I'm completely charmed by the mosaics and the open kitchen, the way the rooms of the restaurant wind up around an old staircase.
Not bad, she says, helping herself to more rice.
A few months later, Erica tells me she's already decided where she wants to go abroad when she's in college -- Barcelona.