She thinks of the gallows room, the noose around her neck and that moment when she will take her final breath.
The 27-year-old Iraqi woman is sentenced to die in connection with the slayings of three relatives in January 2005.
Samar was sentenced to death by hanging for being an accessory to murder in the killings of her uncle, aunt and cousin -- slayings that she says were carried out at their home by her husband-to-be, who remains on the loose.
During the interview, the wardens also seemed to make motions to try to stop CNN from broaching the subject of her allegation that she had only confessed under torture.
The day of the killings is seared into her mind.
"I was so happy at the time, when he asked for my hand in marriage," she remembered bitterly.
One day, she says, Saif duped her into taking him to her wealthy uncle's house.
"And now I am here in prison, and he is out on the streets, happy."
She says she was tortured by the police into confessing that she went to her uncle's house with the intent to steal.
After learning of Samar's case from CNN, former Deputy Prime Minister Barham Salih said Tuesday he spoke with the Iraqi Presidency Council, which promised to look into the matter.
Amnesty International issued a report Tuesday saying that at least 1,000 prisoners sit on Iraq's death row and that Iraq now has one of the highest execution rates in the world.
"There are serious problems plaguing the administration of justice in Iraq in criminal cases, and this fact is widely acknowledged by the Iraq judges, prosecutors and defense counsel."
Local organizations like the Organization for Women's Freedom in Iraq have for years been fighting to get the death penalty abolished in Iraq, especially when it comes to flawed trials and women being put to death.
"As a human rights organization in Iraq, we find that we need some backup from abroad to put pressure on our government as a first step to stop the executions of these women, some of whom we know are innocent."
As for Samar, she doesn't sleep, haunted by the image of her body that could be hanging lifeless -- plagued by the gut-wrenching fear of death that consumes her nights and most of her days.
Or my friend sitting next to me?"
Samar feels betrayed, both by the man she once loved and by a judicial system that is about to send her to her death.