From robots you can buy right now to the ones invading the work force to tech giant Google's move into military robotics, our automated friends are no longer just the stuff of science-fiction double features.
So, as we ponder the real-world arrival of robots in our midst -- delivery drones, self-driving cars -- it's worth taking a look at 10 of the most influential robots from pop culture that helped inspire us along the way.
The result was a suit of armor, automated by a system of pulleys and levers, that he is believed to have displayed at a party at the court of Milan.
It is believed to be the first time the term "robots" was used to describe artificial people (who, in the tale, are made in a factory from synthetic material).
As happens in these cases, the cyborg-like creations in the play seem perfectly happy to serve humans, until an uprising ends in the extinction of the human race.
Pop artists from Queen to Nine Inch Nails to Madonna have made music videos either inspired by "Metropolis" or using clips from it.
•  A robot must obey orders given it by human beings except where such orders would conflict with the First Law.
Robby made his first appearance in the 1956 movie "Forbidden Planet."
Represented by an impassive, disembodied voice but able to mechanically control the spaceship Discovery, which he's tasked with running, HAL represented our fears of technology gone awry as the Space Age dawned.
A new embodiment of our worst fears, the robots of "Terminator" are time-traveling killing machines -- and it's all because the people in charge let what we can do get ahead of what we should do.
The android from "Star Trek: The Next Generation" is a creation that science has made so painfully close to human that his hyper-powered mind can't help but yearn to be one of us.
Like much great science fiction, "Wall-E" also tackles larger societal issues like rampant consumerism and environmental waste, while still offering up a robot who connected with millions of viewers, young and old, on a personal level.