We expected Ryan, not Biden, to bring a three-ring binder full of facts and figures to the debate.
And Biden's aggressive offense from the very beginning drowned out Ryan until about 45 minutes into the debate.
Whether you agree or disagree with the specifics of the Obama-Biden or Romney-Ryan plans, Biden did a better job of selling his last night.
If Biden was on a mission to bring the fight to Ryan, then it appeared to be mission accomplished for the vice president.
Biden went where President Barack Obama wouldn't last week in his debate with Romney, bringing up Romney's "47%" controversy as well as the Republican nominee's tax rate.
"I think Joe Biden did do his boss a lot of help," agreed Senior CNN Political Analyst David Gergen, who's advised both Democratic and Republican presidents.
They expect that," Obama senior adviser David Axelrod said.
I don't know if the vice president knew that there was a camera on him the whole time, that there was a split screen," senior Romney campaign adviser Russ Schriefer said.
Seven out of 10 debate watchers in a CNN/ORC International poll said that Biden was the aggressor.
Past vice presidential debates, no matter how high the drama, have ultimately done little to move the needle in modern elections.
The biggest impact of the night, and the reason Democrats were ebullient after the debate, was the base-rallying impact of Biden's aggressive and blustery stage presence.
Campaign surrogates stayed in the spin room with puffed chests for much longer than they did in Denver, when they offered dubious messaging before escaping.
You didn't see much of the same on the Republican side.
As the running mate to the Republican challenger, Ryan needed to convey that he's fit to serve should something happen to the commander in chief, that he would be acceptable to Americans as president.
The Taliban and the terrorists and the Haqqani and the Quetta Shura come over from Pakistan to fight our men and women.
"And so when Adm. Mullen and Gen. Petraeus came to Congress and said, if you pull these people out before the fighting season ends, it puts people more at risk.
"I think Congressman Ryan was out of his depth and showed clearly the ticket is not ready for prime time on foreign policy, and I think that was a decisive difference between the two sides," said Obama campaign manager Jim Messina.
Six out of 10 debate watchers in the CNN/ORC poll conducted said that Ryan is qualified to be president.
He's been saying it for decades, but not usually with the kind of gusto he showed on Thursday before millions of prime time television viewers.
It was also trending on Twitter for a good chunk of time.