Tripoli, Libya (CNN) -- Embattled Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi flatly denied Monday the existence of the protests threatening to end his 41-year rule, as reports of fighting between government forces and rebels raged another day.
Government forces have repeatedly clashed with demonstrators over the past two weeks in Libya, fired on crowds and at times shot indiscriminately at people in the streets, numerous witnesses have told CNN.
"Here, you actually have a government that retains force at its disposal and you have demonstrators joined by elements of the military that have forces at their disposal.
Even as Gadhafi sought to project confidence Monday, reports came in that a military jet bombed a military base in an area controlled by rebel forces.
The Temporary General Committee for Defense said reports that the Libyan air force conducted strikes on the ammunition depots in the cities of Ajdabiya and Rajima were false, state TV reported.
A military chopper with soldiers on board has tried to land a couple of times over the past three days, but the opposition fired at the soldiers and kept them away, the witness said.
Pentagon spokesman Col. David Lapan said the United States is "repositioning" naval and air forces in the region to be prepared for any option that it may need to exercise.
Also Monday, the United States became the latest country to announce it had frozen Gadhafi-related assets.
Some in Tripoli told CNN they feared their protest movement was losing momentum.
Speaking at the meeting in Geneva, Ashton said, "What matters in the end is not the number of resolutions passed but results in the real world."
The Security Council measures -- which include an arms embargo, an asset freeze and travel bans for Gadhafi and members of his family and associates -- also referred the situation unfolding in Libya to the International Criminal Court.
Over the weekend, Libya's deputy ambassador to the United Nations, Ibrahim Dabbashi, indicated he and fellow diplomats support "in principle" a caretaker administration under the direction of former Justice Minister Mustafa Abdul Jalil.
Dabbashi told CNN Monday that Gadhafi has asked for a change in Libya's U.N. representation, though the diplomat vowed to stay on to represent the people.
Tunisians on the border with Libya waved pre-Gadhafi-era Libyan flags in support of the opposition.