What's more, 75% of parents of obese children don't think they have a problem on their hands, according to Children's Healthcare of Atlanta, the state's largest pediatric health care system.
"We felt that because there was so much denial that we needed to make people aware that this is a medical crisis," Chief Administrative Officer Linda Matzigkeit said.
"There seems to be this perception that it's OK to shame children and families struggling with obesity because that will provide an incentive to lose weight," said Rebecca Puhl, director of research and weight stigma initiatives at the Rudd Center for Food Policy & Obesity at Yale University.
We can't do this alone; it's going to take a whole community of physicians, parents and caregivers to solve the problem," Matzigkeit said.
She asked her 13-year-old daughter, Maya Walters, if she was interested and at the audition, the two learned about the substance of the ads.
"Being overweight is a problem, but you're not the only one dealing with it," she said.
By the time school began last fall, she was ready to try out for the cheerleading squad and made it, which means two training sessions a week along with two to three games.
Maya came to the campaign as a paid model, but the hospital considers her an example of how Strong4Life helps children set goals for a healthy lifestyle, complete with videos documenting their journeys.
But among critics, those tools were buried far too deep within the initial ad campaign.
"The approach should be to try to change those ideas with positive messages that encourage kids, parents and the community to get involved in encouraging kids to be active and eat well," said Farrell, a professor of American studies and Women's & Gender Studies at Dickinson College.
The hard-hitting tone of Children's Healthcare's ads were inspired by Georgia METH Project's "Not Even Once" campaign, along with other state-led campaigns against smoking and drug abuse, which tend to pair a minimalist aesthetic with brutal, straightforward wording.
"The target is everyone, whether they're fat or not, that somehow we should all be taking responsibility for what's perceived as an epidemic," said Farrell.
"If you look at steps it takes to initiate long-term change, the first thing you need is to be aware that there's a problem and then you need the intent to change," said Dr. Mark Wulkan, the hospital's chief surgeon and professor-in-chief of pediatric surgery at Emory Hospital in Atlanta.