(CNN) -- In the current nationwide series of Veterans Administration scandals, the real focus has to be on rethinking the system that is failing to serve our veterans and their families.
The real challenges in developing a 21st century Veterans Administration are challenges of systemic reform that go far beyond any single person or even a new senior leadership team.
The experiment illustrated the point that organizations fail when the systems are bad, even if the workers are willing.
At most banks even deposit slips are a thing of the past.
The VA treats some six million veterans a year at more than 1,400 different sites including hospitals, clinics, nursing homes, etc.
According to the VA, it helps train 90,000 health professionals every year in its medical centers.
Yet with 94,000 additional government employees, the system has not been able to match the private sector's standard of care.
"A recent inspector general investigation of a VA facility in Las Vegas found that up to 25 percent of patients experienced a length of stay of more than six hours on all but one of the days in a week monitored...
Compounding the VA challenge is the fact that it has to be considered in combination with the Department of Defense's Military Health System, which serves nearly 10 million people at a cost of more than $50 billion a year.
This is on top of the over $2 billion the Defense Department has spent on a failed upgrade to its own electronic medical system.
Anyone upset at today's Veterans Administration should consider the founding of the Veterans Bureau in 1921 and take comfort that the admittedly appalling corruption or mismanagement we see today pales in comparison to that which marked the first two years of the original Veterans Bureau.
As the scandal broke, President Harding summoned Forbes to the White House and "took him by the neck and shook Forbes 'as a dog would a rat,'" as Amity Shlaes writes in her book "Coolidge," ending the tenure of the first director of the modern Veterans Administration.