It was always going to take something special to lure Boris Becker away from the home comforts of his family and the sanctuary of the television studio.
Becker, whose first of three triumphs at the All England club came as a raw teenager, was heavily criticized when he moved away from the microphone to become an integral part of Djokovic's coaching set up.
The 46-year-old says he could not turn down the offer -- especially given the similarities he saw between Djokovic, now 27, and his younger self.
Becker burst onto the scene by winning Wimbledon at the tender age of 17 and repeating the feat the following year, becoming known as "Boom Boom" for his ferocious serve-and-volley game.
It is something he enjoys immensely, his enthusiasm laid bare for all to see every time he picks up a microphone.
"I considered going back on the road but I wanted to talk to him first to see how driven he was.
"I go on the road because I want to win the majors and not being happy with the quarters or the semis.
Defeats in the finals at Wimbledon and the U.S Open in 2013 and the 2014 French Open had left question marks over Djokovic's morale, but Becker believes any doubts have since been erased.
Djokovic will start his 2014 U.S. Open campaign next week hoping to secure a second victory at Flushing Meadows to his growing list of triumphs, having lost in the last two finals there.
18 Tommy Robredo in Cincinnati last week -- a result which has cast doubt over whether he will be ready for the final grand slam of the season.
His parents gave everything for their children and he feels he has a very big responsibility to give everything he has and eventually give back to his family.
"It changed me for the better," says Becker, who has children by both his first and second wives.
It gave me another three or four years on my career and I think it will do the same for Novak.
He loves his wife and family more than anything in the world, and having that addition to his family will make him a better man."