This is beginning to change as financial fortunes for some have soared in recent years, helping lift some 50% of the country into the middle class.
Now that Brazil will be hosting the World Cup next year and the Olympics in 2016 (massive public expenditures that many here deeply oppose), it's time for a crash course in all things Brazilian.
They've seen all the American movies and know all the Adele songs, but the premium has traditionally been on getting a good education in Portuguese, still difficult in a land where education is far down the list of priorities.
Brazilians are hospitable, though, and most will figure out a way to communicate.
Maybe because they're surrounded by so many varieties of exotic fruits the rest of us have never heard of -- caju, camu-camu, pitanga -- Brazilians are experts in the creation of especially tasty fruit drinks, or sucos.
From the sidewalk cafes of Rio, to backyard barbecues, to beaches up and down the long coast, to the wild interior, Brazil is a place to be outside.
For scale, it's hard to match the immensity of the Amazon rainforest, the largest in the world, or the power of Iguazu Falls, which is the second widest and in volume in the world.
These mountains of bricks, rising in intricate forms, border the country's largest cities like Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro.
Stay in a safe area, don't carry more money on you than you can afford to lose, keep your valuables in the hotel safe, use taxis vetted by your hotel, don't take van taxis and make sure you know what part of town you're in at night.
The docks of the Rio Negro still show vestiges of an older way of life -- double-decker ferryboats that carry people and products up and down the two behemoth rivers.
In Rio de Janeiro, the city puts on free music fests, with top bands performing on stages across the city, while in Recife, at the city's outdoor concert stage across the street from the beach, free concerts range from rock to forro to an event featuring every drummer with a drum kit in the city, more than 100 of them playing in unison.
Keeping track of all the different beats has made Brazilian percussion the most sophisticated in the world, with a slew of drum instruments found nowhere else, such as the comical cuica, which sounds like a dog in heat.
Since they don't place much stock in personal space, Brazilians have an easier time of breaking through the emotional space, too.
Placing a hand on a shoulder or providing a robust bear hug and a salvo of air kisses is part of an intricate social dance that results in a welcoming vibe for travelers.
Locals blocked off a river and filled it with starving piranha, and then tossed in a cow to guarantee a good show for the President.