"I think it is loud and clear from everybody in Egypt that Mubarak has to leave today, and it is nonnegotiable for every Egyptian.
If he wants to save his skin, if he has an iota of patriotism, I would advise him to leave today and save the country."
I think if you listen to the street, they are not asking for democracy, they are not asking for anything except the removal of Mubarak.
"So I think what we need to do now is to lay out a plan for Mubarak to lift the state of emergency, announce that elections -- free and fair -- will be held in September, which were already planned, allow an open and free democratic process, which I think we could have some confidence if it was an open process that you would see a free and fair election and that we make sure that the aspirations of the Egyptian people are realized finally."
And I believe that every loyal Egyptian will continue to undertake his responsibilities and contribute towards the improvement of his homeland."
"What could be realistic is that Mubarak himself becomes convinced, with outside advice, that it is in his interest, as well as in Egypt's interests, that he goes, and that he sets in motion a process which facilitates that.
But we obviously want to see people who are truly committed to democracy, not to imposing any ideology on Egyptians, and therefore we would like to encourage that people who have been the voice of protests and been the voice of civil society be the ones at the table trying to design what would be an orderly transition to meet the democratic and economic needs of the people."
"We are on the side -- as we have been for more than 30 years -- of a democratic Egypt that provides both political and economic rights to its people, that respects the universal human rights of all Egyptians.
"I think that President Mubarak, he knows what's going on in his own country.
"We have sent a very clear message that we want to see restraint, we do not want to see violence by any security forces, and we continue to convey that message.
We have warned that there should not be any nonessential travel to Egypt."
And I would plead with my new Republican colleagues in the House who seem to want to do this, that that is playing with fire.
And I don't think the American people will tolerate increasing the debt limit without serious reductions in spending and changes to the budget process, so that we can make sure that this never happens again.
They want to us reduce spending, and there is no limit to the amount of spending we're willing to cut."
People have suggestions on how to make it better.
"I feel pretty strongly about what I do.
And I don't need to be speaker of the House because I need some fancy title.
And it's a legal product.