High above the barren Gran Sasso hills in Italy's central Abruzzo region, this tiny hamlet, barely changed since medieval times, was in danger of reverting to its wild past until Kihlgren showed up with a vision.
Sextantio (Via Principe Umberto, Santo Stefano di Sessanio; +39 0862 899112) in Santo Stefano is one of several so-called "diffuse hotels" that eschew the usual hotel model of grouping rooms and facilities under one roof.
Kihlgren gives me the grand tour, describing his early days trying to acquire property in the hamlet -- leading to surreal situations for both him and the villagers.
I open the squeaky bolt of a heavy wooden door and enter a snug, warm room filled with the scent of embers and orange peel -- a perfume created by the hotel to evoke a typical hearth scent.
Rinsing involves using a pitcher to collect running water from a low tap, a throwback to the past.
"I wanted to restyle the buildings as we found them and bring back to life the so-called secondary human heritage: that of poor, outcast communities who for centuries stood as Italy's shame.
Just 50 residents still live here and, walking around, I come across elderly women sitting on doorsteps and art restorers at work.
Evening meals are taken in La Locanda Sotto gli Archi, the hotel's grotto restaurant located on the other side of the hamlet where chef Simone Iezzi serves a daily changing menu that includes signature dishes like ricotta cheese ravioli, pork chops and fried breaded porcini mushrooms.
After an afternoon nap, I'm greeted in the hotel's tea room and craft shop by Giovanna Fiorenzi, who sits at an old spinning frame making wool carpets, bed covers and giving weaving lessons to guests.
Breakfast is a buffet table laden with homemade yogurt, pies, ricotta cheese and a ham leg over in the restaurant.
The spa area at Aquaesinis, a traditional farm in Sardinia, used to be a wine cellar.
The reception area is a former monastic cell and the restaurant sits inside a crypt.
(Via del Pretorio, 3 Semproniano; +39 0564 986226)