Properties: 129 properties, in 14 countries, that include the moderately priced Barceló Comfort hotels and the more stylish Barceló brand.
Properties: 11 hotels in Europe and North Africa, often with locally influenced decor, on-demand movies, and concierges.
Properties: 370 low-budget locations in 11 countries.
Properties: More than 160 properties that run the gamut from remote resorts to inexpensive city hotels, in countries like Spain, Belgium, France, Argentina and Egypt.
Properties: 100 properties, most located beachside with swimming pools and large gardens, in Europe, South America, the Caribbean and North Africa.
Properties: 800 mid-level hotels, with 24/7 reception and other services, in 38 countries.
Properties: 397 large hotels with restaurants and lounges, in 54 countries.
Properties: 38 properties that include beachfront high-rises and spa resorts, with a variety of room sizes and styles -- many equipped with kitchens -- in Portugal, Brazil, Mozambique, South Africa, Cape Verde, and São Tomé and Principe.
Properties: 105 locations, many all-inclusive, in resort areas of North Africa, Mexico, the Caribbean and Europe.
Properties: 318 properties in 30 countries operating under six brands that include Sol Hotels, which are typically near a beach and have kid-friendly restaurants; Tryp Hotels, which also target families but are more likely to be in cities; and the new boutique-style ME by Meliã.
Properties: 15 hotels in Thai beach-resort areas and major cities.
Properties: 18 properties with gourmet restaurants (some with poolside chalets) in Thailand, the Philippines, Myanmar and the United Arab Emirates.
Properties: Nine sleek, modern hotels (five in Taiwan) with soundproof rooms, plasma TVs and marble bathrooms.
Properties: Eight locations in India with self-serve check-in, well-equipped gyms, and flat-screen TVs.
Properties: Five cheery, efficiently designed hotels in Denmark -- small, simple rooms modeled on cruise ship cabins (hence the name).
Properties: 17 locations that tend to be either chic and modern (in big cities) or traditional (in resort areas), primarily in Turkey, northern Cyprus, Eastern Europe and Uzbekistan.
Properties: 13 unexciting, moderately priced hotels and guesthouses in normally expensive Iceland.
Properties: 28 mid-level hotels in Germany and Austria, often located near train stations and airports.
Properties: 40 properties, mostly located in France, including the JJW Luxury Collection at the high end, Stars Hotels at the low, and the Median brand -- no surprise -- in the middle.
Properties: Five automated hotels in Finland; guests check themselves in with a preset door code and contact housekeeping through interactive TVs.
Properties: 17 German hotels converted from, among other things, a grain silo, a blacksmith's shop, and a medieval inn.
Properties: 54 sleek, simple, ecofriendly hotels in Norway, Belgium and the Netherlands.
Properties: 12 moderate to upscale hotels in Israel.
Properties: 70 properties throughout the country, including full-service resorts in places like Puerto Vallarta (Fiesta Americana) and more-standard, business-style accommodations (Fiesta Inns).
The company's Courtyard brand is at the high end of the spectrum, its motel-like Road Lodge is at the lower end, and City Lodge and Town Lodge are situated in between.
Properties: 113 properties, mostly in South Africa with a few in Tanzania, Nigeria, Namibia, Zimbabwe and even the U.K. Hotels range from mid-level city properties to deluxe safari lodges.
Please be sure to confirm all rates and details directly with the companies in question before planning your trip.