At first glance, the sleepy Chinese town of Anren, isn't much to look at unless you're a fan of the giant Buddha heads and vintage water tanks being hawked outside its vintage buildings.
Due to a lack of industry, Anren would likely have remained a backwater but for local landlord Liu Wencai, whose legacy has driven the town's rebirth as an historic destination.
A blend of Western and Chinese architectural aesthetics, they also provide insight into the remarkable period between the end of imperial China's last rulers -- the Qing dynasty -- and the formation of the People's Republic.
Chopsticks are thrown in the air -- a gesture once thought to lead to abundant offspring -- and bejeweled swords are hung from sedan chairs for luck.
Fan had acquired land in Anren through auction and decided that it would be the perfect spot to house his large collection of revolution memorabilia.
There are currently 24 exhibition spaces open, covering 100,000 square meters (1.1 million square feet) and housing more than eight million items including historical artefacts, commissioned artworks and reproduced photographs, themed around the Sino-Japanese war, the Mao-era, Chinese culture and the 2008 Sichuan earthquake.
There are also three floors of artifacts at the Hall of the Core of the Resistance, focusing on individuals in the Sino-Japanese war.
There are also thousands of unique pieces on display in the Gallery of Porcelain of New China that explore how the aesthetic style of porcelain changed between the 1950s to the 1980s.
The estates are split into four main areas: the Liu Family Old Manor, Liu Family's Historic Home, Precious Artefacts Gallery and Rent Collection Hall.
The Precious Artefacts Gallery is is now home to the items that once sat in the now mostly bare rooms of the Old Manor.
The buildings are still well-preserved and the interiors are often in keeping with the era so it's worth having a peek at some of the architecture and murals on the walls.
Galleries, mostly displaying traditional art, are free to enter.