Nutritional advice and tactics are scribbled on the whiteboard and a Wayne Rooney portrait hangs on the wall.
It is still early days, but Baan believes with continued development of India's grassroots, the country might be ready to participate in the 2022 World Cup.
Up until the 1970s, India, which has long been one of the world's top sides at cricket, was among the best sides in Asian football and the national team was even invited by FIFA to play in the 1950 World Cup in Brazil.
Located in Dwarka in southwest Delhi, the AIFF's headquarters is an impressive building crowned with a huge football.
Former Indian soccer star Baichung Bhutia, who briefly played for English lower division team Bury FC in 1999, added: "If the AIFF says India's not a sporting nation, then what are they doing there?
But the main goal should be for Indians to renew national pride in their home game, which currently rejoices in its past.
Roy says this victory gave India the confidence to make the move towards independence, which finally happened 36 years later.
In December 2010, AIFF signed a 15-year lucrative seven billion rupee ($1.3 million) marketing deal with India's IMG Reliance --- a world-leading sports management company -- to boost the promotion of domestic football.
But while tickets were in short supply to watch arguably the world's best player, local matches remain abandoned on unpopular television channels and without effective promotion.
"These clubs don't know how lucky they are because they did absolutely nothing to get this kind of commitment from fans," says Hindustan Times sports journalist Dhiman Sarkar.
But when asked about the lack of merchandise available for fans, he says they have run out and will re-order soon.
It hasn't caught up with world football and where it's gone.
Along with Manchester United, Liverpool and Barcelona have also opened football academies in the country.
In addition, attractive salaries, and the opportunities to become a coach or a physio, are incentives for parents to allow their children to pursue football.
"The Messis of the world only come through if we create the right kind of environment," Prabhakaran argues.
.