Despite a seven-month trial, much remains in question about what happened at his upmarket home in Pretoria, South Africa around 4 a.m. that Thursday morning, leaving stunned fans at a loss to explain how their hero could have fallen so far and so fast.
Speaking to CNN's Robyn Curnow in the last few weeks before his sentencing, Pistorius told her that he would respect and accept the decision of the court and that he was not afraid of imprisonment.
While he failed to win a medal, Pistorius' presence on the track was hailed as a triumph over adversity and a victory over critics who claimed his blades gave him an unfair advantage over the able-bodied.
After the shooting, a police spokeswoman said there had been "previous incidents" at Pistorius' home, including "allegations of a domestic nature," but did not say what they had been.
"What can you say if the person you love the most dies, and you were the instrument?"
He was a keen shooter and despite his disability he was not afraid to take risks.
From a young age, Pistorius dedicated himself to being the best he could be at sport.
"We have no doubt there is no substance to the allegation and that the State's own case, including its own forensic evidence, strongly refutes any possibility of a premeditated murder or indeed any murder at all," said Arnold Pistorius before the athlete's conviction.
Her father Barry Steenkamp told the Afrikaans-language newspaper Beeld: "It doesn't matter how rich [Pistorius] is ... and how good his legal team is.
"But if he's telling the truth, I may forgive him one day," he said.
As a child, Pistorius competed in water polo, cricket, tennis, triathlons and Olympic wrestling and boxing, before he smashed his knee while playing rugby at the age of 16.
It took him almost eight weeks to recover, a period of time the athlete has described as "fairly difficult" as it marked the first season in four or five years in which he didn't record a personal best.
So having to remember that there are kids out there, especially, that look up to you is definitely something that you need to keep at the back of your mind."
His account laid dormant for a year until the anniversary of Steenkamp's death in February, when he tweeted a link to "a few words from my heart" on his website.