The children, many of them arriving unaccompanied from El Salvador, Honduras and Guatemala, have traveled up to 3,000 miles across deserts and rivers, clinging to the tops of trains.
Protesters even tried to stop a bus of kids from the local YMCA , which they had mistaken as the immigrant children.
"These children should be returned to their home country -- not to Oracle, Arizona, paid for by American taxpayers," Babeu said earlier in a statement on the department's Facebook page.
Just over 40 immigrants on Homeland Security buses arrived at the St. Joseph's Catholic Church there on Thursday and were greeted by staff and community donations of food, clothing and toys, according to CNN affiliate KTLA.
New Mexico: In Artesia, New Mexico, hundreds of residents turned out for a contentious town hall meeting to decry the hundreds of women and children being housed at the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, a facility that also trains Border Patrol agents, according to CNN affiliate KOAT.
Michigan: Protesters headed to city hall in Vassar earlier this month to oppose a social service agency's plan to temporarily house 60 immigrant children according to CNN affiliate WNEM.
"It's about the American government, Democrat or Republican, getting off their lazy butts and passing a decent bill where we can screen our immigrants, make sure they're not felons, diseased or whatever, and get a program set up to bring them into this country," Vassar resident Jack Smith told WNEM.
"I'm concerned these children may be housed here permanently and of course there is going to be a drain on our educational system and other county services."
O'Malley officials pointed to graffiti that was found spray painted on the shelter site in Westminster, Maryland, last weekend as an indication of hostility the migrant housing plan was generating.
A Maryland law enforcement official told the Washington Post the message would be investigated as a hate crime.
And on Monday, the U.S. government deported the first group of what authorities promise will be many more -- about 40 mothers and children.