Mujahid almost never gives TV interviews and he initially said the interview with CNN would last 15 minutes, but spoke to Robertson for 45.
Mujahid: I want to tell you clearly when we rose up in Afghanistan in 1994 we did not rise up to be the government ... you know the mujahadeen government ... and when the Russians flee Afghanistan.
2 I want to tell you clearly our Afghan nation is held hostage by foreign troops.
This is just a joke and we ask from our Muslim brothers and our population not to take part in this election because this is people selected from the White House before the election.
I told you clearly it is what the U.S. wants in Afghanistan, and yesterday as announced by our leader Mullah brother we will target the Afghan parliamentary members and government officials so if there are elections yes it is clear we will target them.
We will not target everyone with a suicide attack.
Mujahid: First we give the proof from the beginning of our jihad against crusader we do not want to kill civilians.
Mujahid: We do not want to interfere in the Pakistan Taliban affairs.
Mujahid: I ask you do only Americans come to Afghanistan or are there 40 other countries with them?
Will that defeat your forces, the Taliban?
If they want to send 20,000 to start a new campaign, this is a war and we will see the war and make our policy.
Mujahid: If they want to send the troops and change things we believe they can't do anything because the 40 countries don't make any good achievements inside Afghanistan.
What are the Taliban terms for talking?
Mujahid: I want to tell you clearly there is no peace talks or negotiations in Saudi Arabia.
First I want to tell you some people take the former Taliban to Saudi Arabia to negotiate.
[When] one wants to talk with us and we want to talk, it will be clear.
[German Chancellor] Angela Merkel when she is coming to Kunduz -- before she is coming we had intelligence reports tell us she is coming, we had the information she is coming.
CNN: How do you get this intelligence?
For example, on the day of the Afghan celebration [when a parade attended by President Karzai was attacked in April 2008] in the same team that work with Karzai they gave the information that he is coming.
They are global we are just in the region.
We do not have any link with them -- they do not have any link with us under the command of al Qaeda.
If mujahadeen freely want to do jihad they can come.