"The notion of retirement has never been a part of my vocabulary," said Bob Witeck, CEO and co-founder of Witeck Communications.
"Because I run a business, as I get older I can change the intensity of my engagement in the kinds of work I take on," Witeck said.
"When you put that together -- the absence of adult children and a partner to help, and add barriers to accessing services, and limit the financial means others have -- then this very thin network of support breaks at exactly the wrong time, right when there is an increasing need for services," said Michael Adams, executive director of the group Services & Advocacy for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual & Transgender Elders, known as SAGE.
Witeck said his retirement plans and those of his friends are nothing like those of their fathers' generation.
"I do know, as we age, our health can fail, and I've seen it with some friends who aren't as sharp as they once were.
But often retirement-age people do need help, and that has not always been easy for the LGBT community.
This year the Administration on Aging -- the federal agency responsible for funding programs that help the elderly -- finally issued guidance saying agencies and programs it funds should recognize the LGBT population among those with "the greatest social need."
Among the LGBT Elder Americans Act's proposals is an amendment that would permanently establish the National Resource Center on LGBT Aging, which would provide training to providers of services to the elderly around the country.
"Sometimes even the leadership will get it (being inclusive of LGBT people), but it doesn't get passed on to the people working with the LGBT community."
"LGBT people want to experience the services and programs that exist for all older people," Adams said.
Even in the short time that SAGE has been conducting its training, it has seen a difference, Adams said.
Witeck said he hopes he will never need those support services, but if he does, he's confident his generation will continue to make them more accessible to the LGBT community.
How has LGBT life changed over the years?