(CNN)By now, you probably have a position regarding the controversy over Indiana's religious freedom law.
The federal law was intended to protect individual's religious freedom from government intervention, he said.
Also, the law was envisioned to protect the religious freedoms of individuals, while the Indiana law also protects private companies, Schumer said.
The photography studio lost the case because the court ruled that it could not use the religious freedom law because the dispute was between two private parties and not a government entity.
In a letter expressing concern about the Indiana law, a group of 30 legal scholars argued that what Indiana has done is expanded the scope of the law to the point that religious considerations might trump discrimination concerns.
Yes, the Indiana law makes it clear that individuals and private companies can use the religious freedom law as a defense, he said.
The success of such arguments is to be seen.
Today, it is being championed by Republicans.
But Holbrook says it is no coincidence that the religious freedom laws became popular at the state level just as the gay rights and marriage equality movement made historic steps.
So we've established that the biggest difference between the federal law and the Indiana law is the scope: In Indiana, the law can be raised as a defense in private disputes, while the federal law applies only to government matters.
According to Blackman, the interpretations of the federal religious freedom law are not uniform.
The outrage over the Indiana law is that it can be used to deny services to the LGBT community on the ground of religious beliefs.
Even before the controversial Indiana law was passed, if a restaurant denied service to a gay couple, the couple might be able to sue, but not for discrimination.
If New Mexico had the same religious freedom law as Indiana, the case would have gone to trial.
Or, at the very least, an exception written into the religious freedom bill that protects from such discrimination.