The stakes are more personal for Stark this time out, and although comic book fans will recognize the classic characters, Stark's got new on-screen villains to contend with such as Eric Savin/Coldblood, played by James Badge Dale.
Of his dim-witted character Brick Tamland, Steve Carell said that he hopes he hasn't changed at all since the first film, which came out in 2004.
Then "The Great Gatsby" had its release date shuffled from December 2012 to May 10, 2013, curtailing potential Oscar nominations this time around (although the trailers still look promising).
The second installment of the series, due November 22, just wrapped shooting in Hawaii (the new Game, featuring survivors of Games past, has a water-and-jungle theme).
"We've really loved everything we've seen so far in the film," said "Beautiful Creatures" co-author Kami Garcia.
Reports from early test screenings suggest the film, out October 18, is gorgeous and awe-inspiring, but also divisive along the lines of "The Tree of Life."
2013 will see its fair share of familiar properties getting new life in the form of remakes and reboots.
Smaug will be the first performance-captured dragon, and thanks to advancements in technology, we should be able to see more emotion and musculature in his face in the same manner in which Gollum was improved for "The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey," only on a much bigger scale.
Ryan Gosling fans have three ways to see their favorite actor in 2013: in "Gangster Squad," "Only God Forgives" and "The Place Beyond the Pines."
There won't be a bigger zombie apocalypse than "World War Z," and it's got one of the biggest stars (Brad Pitt) to anchor it.
"Elysium" (starring Matt Damon, out March 1), "Oblivion" (starring Tom Cruise, out April 19), and "After Earth" (starring Will Smith, out June 7) share common themes, but only the first two seem to blame rampant corporatization and wealth discrepancies instead of nature.
In this scenario, the rich live on a luxurious new world called Elysium, and the poor live on Earth, which has become overpopulated, diseased and crime ridden.