(CNN)A pair of dramatic raids Friday in France led to the killing of three terrorists -- one suspected in the fatal shooting of a policewoman and four hostages, the other two in the massacre at the offices of Charlie Hebdo magazine -- and to the freeing of more than a dozen people being held hostage.
• Four hostages were killed and 15 survived in the standoff between an armed terrorist and police at a Paris kosher grocery store on Friday, according to Israeli government sources who characterized a phone conversation between Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and French President François Hollande.
• A man claiming to be Amedy Coulibaly, the suspected hostage-taker at the Paris grocery store, told CNN affiliate BFMTV that he belonged to the Islamist militant group ISIS.
Didier said he first thought the man, who was dressed in black and heavily armed, was a police officer.
.
Like Cherif Kouachi, a man claiming to be Coulibaly called BFMTV on Friday.
Up to 20 heavily armed police officers moved into the store.
Israeli government sources told CNN that Hollande told Netanyahu that four hostages were killed and 15 were rescued.
This "war" erupted two days ago, when a pair of heavily armed men -- hooded and dressed in black -- entered the Paris offices of Charlie Hebdo, the satirical magazine known for its provocative, often profane, take on religion, politics and most anything else.
As the suspects moved, the French government -- including more than 80,000 police deployed across the country -- also didn't stand still.
"...
...
The Western intelligence source said that Coulibaly lived with Boumeddiene, his alleged accomplice in the police shooting, and that the two traveled to Malaysia together.
"I know that they didn't want us to be quiet," Pelloux said of the slain Charlie Hebdo staffers.
CNN's Jim Sciutto, Ben Brumfield, Atika Shubert, Laura Smith-Spark, Richard Greene, Fred Pleitgen, Christiane Amanpour, Jim Bittermann and Bryony Jones contributed to this report.