The fire that engulfed the Porsche carrying actor Paul Walker apparently did not erupt until a minute after the car clipped a light pole Saturday.
The autopsies were completed Tuesday, Los Angeles County Coroner Lt. Fred Corral said.
Video  obtained by CNN Tuesday from a security camera posted on a building on the opposite side of the street from the crash does not show the Porsche Carerra GT crashing along a business park street in Valencia, California, Saturday afternoon.
Every night since the crash fans have gathered and left mementos near the spot on a wide business park road in Valencia, California, about 30 miles north of Hollywood, according to Walker's publicist and CNN affiliate KCAL.
The actor had told his father that he wanted to take a hiatus from acting to spend more time with his 15-year-old daughter, Meadow, the elder Walker said.
"I'm just ... glad that every time I saw him, I told him I loved him," the father said.
Richard Cohen told CNN that authorities received a tip Sunday suggesting that another car was at the scene racing the Porsche when it slammed into a light pole and burst into flames.
The car, which sold for $450,000 when new, is a notoriously difficult vehicle to handle, even for professional drivers, according to Autoweek magazine.
Someone called it in and said it was a vehicle fire.
We tried.
Jim Torp, a car enthusiast who was at the charity event, said Walker was smiling as he got into the Porsche minutes earlier.
The couple apparently did not know who Walker was, King said.
"Walker called the manager over and said, 'Put that girl's ring on my tab,'" she said.
The car shop website invited customers to a "Charity Toy Drive & Automotive Social Gathering."
Walker was in the middle of the seventh film in the "Fast & Furious" franchise.
"We don't know what they'll do here, or even if they'll just say, "It may be tasteless to proceed at all because we can't be showing Paul Walker in a speeding car, defying death in a movie that ended up being the way he died,'" O'Neil said.