Since many Western jihadists have European Union passports, they enjoy visa-free access to the United States, opening the possibility that someone -- not known to U.S. and allied intelligence services and who is not on American no-fly lists like the Kouachi brothers -- could get into the United States.
The paramilitary-style assault on the satirical French publication Charlie Hebdo killed 12 people also underscored a shift away from spectacular, large-scale attacks waged by foreign terror groups like the strike on Sept. 11, 2001.
Just last month, a single hostage taker, apparently inspired by ISIS, seized a cafe in another unlikely terror hot spot -- Sydney, Australia -- killing two people before he was shot dead by police.
Republican Rep. Michael McCaul of Texas, chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee, said the sheer simplicity of the attack in Paris, in which masked gunmen drove up to the Charlie Hebdo offices and started spraying automatic weapons was particularly disturbing.
Senior U.S. intelligence and law enforcement officials working closely with French counterparts will be especially keen to find out whether those behind the Paris attacks are veterans of ISIS' fight in Syria.
Thomas Sanderson, an expert on international terrorism at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, said the risk to the United States from European fighters believed to have returned home after fighting in Syria and elsewhere was significant.
Sanderson also said videos of the assailants on the streets of Paris during the attack suggested they had some level of sophistication, a factor that will also alarm U.S.
The White House said Wednesday that it is paying attention to the risk posed by foreign fighters and the inspiration radicals could find from jihadist groups abroad.
Benjamin cautioned that it remained unclear whether the attackers in the Paris incident were linked or inspired by ISIS or another radical terror group like one of the various branches of al Qaeda.