Case: First, it should be noted that not all greener products are more expensive.
There are also greener products that do not cost extra.
The more efficient versions are typically more expensive initially to reflect the higher-quality components used to make them, but they quickly pay for themselves in lower energy and water costs.
Any new innovative product, whether it is "greener" or not, costs extra initially.
It is also possible, however, to buy high-quality, greener products, at very good prices, at growing numbers of mainstream retail outlets.
"What are the most obvious signs that a company is greenwashing the public with false claims?
Legitimate environmental claims can be certified by independent outside third-party auditors.
There are certainly efforts underway to provide consumers with additional information about the environmental impacts of their purchasing decisions.
Some particularly savvy green consumers, however, want additional information beyond knowing that a product has been certified as meeting a standard.
Government purchasers in New York, Illinois, California, Minnesota, and other places, for example, require cleaning products to meet the Green Seal or EcoLogo cleaning-product standards.
Now that the information is available, consumers can use the EPEAT information to make their own purchasing decisions.
There are persistent rumors of efforts underway to use the legislative power of the federal government to encourage greater transparency regarding the environmental footprint of a product and to make it easier to share that information with consumers.
Until then, consumers need to be aware that not all green-labeling programs are created equally.
(2) Does the label require a product to actually meet a specific standard?
-- Review the standard to determine whether it covers multiple environmental issues throughout the entire product life-cycle, which includes the raw materials used to make the product, the manufacturing process, transportation and packaging, and the impacts of using and discarding or recycling the product.
Other programs -- including EcoLogo, Green Seal, and the Chlorine Free Products Association -- independently review product test data and visit the manufacturing facilities to ensure compliance with the standard.