I don't want to hurt my children," the Chinese woman told CNN Wednesday as she waited in Kuala Lumpur for evidence about what happened to her husband and the 238 others who were aboard Malaysia Airlines Flight 370.
Malaysian officials say they can tell you how Flight 370 ended.
In Beijing, outraged family members marched to the Malaysian Embassy to denounce the airline, the country and just about everything involved with an investigation that has transfixed the world and vexed experts.
"Even though they know the truth, they have been delaying it and missed out on the golden time for the search."
Commercial satellite data from a U.S. company, first analyzed by Australian officials, as well as satellite data from China and France, have turned up evidence of debris bobbing in the general area where authorities believe the plane went down.
A Chinese plane took off for the search area in the Indian Ocean at 5 a.m. Wednesday (5 p.m.
Twelve aircraft will be part of the search, Australian officials said.
"With eight hours of flying to and from the search region, the fleet of P-3 Orion aircraft and other military aircraft have only a precious few hours to scour the search tracks they have been given," Australian Defence Minister David Johnston said.
He said the analysis was based on sophisticated mathematics calculating how long it took signals from a transmitter on the plane to reach an orbiting Inmarsat communications satellite.
ET), leading investigators to conclude the plane's satellite transmitter stopped working sometime between 8:11 and 9:15 a.m.
It involves agencies with "expertise in satellite communications and aircraft performance," he said.
Police have interviewed scores of people, and the Royal Malaysian Air Force is conducting its own inquiry into the disappearance, authorities say.
Malaysian authorities followed up with briefings for families in Beijing and Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
Malaysian officials said they are doing all they can.
And that those families will now have to live on without those they love."