The four men were killed in an attack this week on the U.S. Consulate in Benghazi.
"We will bring to justice those who took them from us," Obama said.
Those countries' leaders "need to do everything they can to restore security" in the face of anti-American protests arising from an "awful Internet video," she said.
Four people have been arrested in connection with the attack that left Stevens and the three other Americans dead, the top aide to the president of the Libyan parliament said Friday.
However, the government now believes the suspects are part of one of the many armed extremist groups operating especially in the eastern part of the country and Benghazi itself, he told CNN.
But on Thursday, three U.S. officials told CNN that they had seen no evidence the attack was premeditated.
During an interview on CNNI's "Amanpour," Abushagur said Thursday that there had been one arrest early Thursday in Benghazi and that three or four others were being pursued.
Given what officials know about al Qaeda in Libya, intelligence officials believe it is very unlikely that core al Qaeda was behind the attack, a U.S. intelligence official told CNN on condition of anonymity.
Meanwhile, Shawn Turner, director of communications for U.S. National Intelligence, denied news reports that American officials had been warned of a possible attack.
Rights groups have raised concerns about the Libyan legal system, which is in the early days of being rebuilt following the fall of the Gadhafi regime.
What is known is that during the attack, a rocket-propelled grenade set the consulate on fire, and American and Libyan security personnel tried to fight the attackers and the fire.
As the fire spread, three people -- Stevens, Foreign Service information management officer Smith, and a U.S. regional security officer -- were inside a safe room, said senior State Department officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity as a matter of practice during a briefing with reporters.
Have you witnessed the attacks?