(CNN) -- Former U.S. Sen. Arlen Specter, who embodied a vanishing breed of liberal Republicanism before switching to the Democratic Party at the twilight of his political career, died Sunday after a long battle with cancer, his family announced.
Specter was elected to the Senate in 1980 and represented Pennsylvania for 30 years, longer than anyone in the state's history.
"From his days stamping out corruption as a prosecutor in Philadelphia to his three decades of service in the Senate, Arlen was fiercely independent -- never putting party or ideology ahead of the people he was chosen to serve," Obama said in a written statement on Specter's death.
"There isn't any doubt in many respects he was an unusual politician," Madonna said.
...
"The last thing you would have thought about Arlen Specter was that he was born in Kansas," Madonna said.
He grew up in Russell, Kansas, also the hometown of another Republican icon, a one-time presidential nominee and senator, Bob Dole.
After Yale, he started practicing law and became an assistant district attorney in Philadelphia.
Specter ran for the U.S. Senate in 1976, but he was defeated in the Republican primary by John Heinz.
He served as chairman of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence from 1995 to 1997.
"He didn't shy away from pork," Madonna said.
"No member of Congress shaped the Supreme Court more than he did," Madonna said.
Despite his longtime membership in the Republican Party, Specter became more alienated from the party as it grew more conservative.
After the loss, Specter moved from the halls of Congress to those of academia, taking on a new role at the University of Pennsylvania Law School as an adjunct professor.
"From his role in sinking Robert Bork's Supreme Court nomination to his cross-examination of Anita Hill, from stem-cell research to the impeachment of Bill Clinton, Specter's greatest talent may be his unique ability to put himself -- somehow, some way -- in the center of the nation's most important debates," the article said.