That contradiction -- with Sybrina Fulton insisting it was her son, Trayvon, who cried out, while Gladys Zimmerman said it was her son, George, who was yelling after being attacked by the teen -- was central to Friday's court proceedings, and central to the second-degree murder case unfolding in central Florida.
Why?
"You certainly hope, as a mom, that your son Trayvon Martin would not have done anything that led to his death, correct?"
More than a year ago, the tale of what happened between Trayvon Martin and George Zimmerman captured the nation's attention and shone a spotlight on gun laws as well as race -- given that Martin is African-American, while Zimmerman is Hispanic.
And of course, there was the testimony of Rachel Jeantel, who said she'd been on the phone with her friend Trayvon Martin in the minutes before his death.
She testified that she'd heard Martin call out, "Why are you following me for?"
But so does Gladys Zimmerman of her own son, the defense lawyer says, arguing that "all the other evidence would suggest" that the screaming voice is indeed that of George Zimmerman.
"I think the jury is going to look at this and say both of these women just have to live with the belief that it is, in fact, their son," O'Mara said.
Jahvaris Fulton, Martin's older brother, testified Friday morning about the voice on the 911 call.
In testimony that at times turned contentious, Bao also said Martin did not die right away after the gunshot.
Bao would not confirm that timeline -- despite West's repeated attempts to have him do so -- because he said he was not there.
When asked about them, Bao said, "I typed out potential answers to your potential questions."
Late in Friday's court proceedings, O'Mara made his pitch for acquittal -- arguing that Zimmerman acted in self-defense; there was no direct evidence of ill will, hatred or spite surrounding Martin's killing; and that it was still unclear who could be heard screaming on the 911 call.
There is "no other reasonable hypothesis" for what happened, the defense attorney argued, besides self-defense.