Hamas security sources reported at least 60 Israeli airstrikes across Gaza on Monday night into Tuesday, including from F-16s, Apache helicopters and drones.
Eight Palestinian militants were killed in more than 25 Israeli airstrikes and 39 rocket attacks across Gaza on Sunday night into Monday, said Ashraf Al-Qidra, a spokesman for the Health Ministry in Gaza.
At least 15 people were injured, he said.
Israeli police have questioned six suspects about what they did "before and during the murder" of the Palestinian teen who was abducted and burned to death, Israeli police spokesman Micky Rosenfeld said.
Naftali Schwartzburger, the lawyer of one of the six suspects, said on CNN affiliate Israeli Channel 2 on Monday that Israeli police conducted re-enactments of the killing of  Mohammed Abu Khedair.
Police have said there is a "strong indication" the attackers may have been motivated by a desire for revenge over the deaths of the three Israeli teenagers, whose bodies were found a week ago in a field in the West Bank.
The teen's father said later Monday that he did not recall speaking with the Prime Minister.
"​
Meanwhile, the Abu Khedair family is irate over the treatment by Israeli police of one of the burning victim's cousins, an American high school student.
Senior officials in the Obama administration said they were shocked at two videos in which Khdeir was seen being held down and pummeled by men in the uniform of Israeli security forces, the officials said.
"He was with six other people.
"They are investigating whether he was throwing rocks," another senior State Department official said.
It's not the police investigating themselves.
Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas has called on the United Nations to set up an international investigation into recent crimes against Palestinian people, including the killing of Abu Khedair, the Palestinian state news agency WAFA reported.
Officials from both sides have called for restraint amid fears that the cycle of horrific violence could continue.