Turkey made a significant policy shift Monday when it announced it would allow Kurdish Peshmerga fighters from northern Iraq to travel through the Turkish territory to reinforce the besieged Kurdish town of Kobani in northern Syria.
The scenes of Kurdish and ISIS fighters locked in a death struggle on the border, as well as the images of more than 100,000 desperate Syrian Kurds fleeing to Turkish territory, triggered spasms of deadly violence between rival factions within Turkey.
More than 30 people were killed in cities around Turkey this month as ethnic Kurds clashed with Islamist and nationalist groups as well as Turkish police.
Agirnasli, a member of Turkey's Marxist-Leninist Communist Party, was reported killed this month in Kobani after he volunteered to join Kurdish militants defending the city.
"What's going on in Kobani today is basically kind of a struggle against barbarians ... against people who have no sense of humanity," said Zafer Yenal, the head of Bogazici's sociology department.
In 1984, a group of Marxist-inspired guerrillas calling themselves the Kurdistan Workers' Party, or PKK, began fighting an insurgent war against the Turkish state.
Meanwhile, the PKK has dropped its demands for an independent state, instead calling for greater autonomy and cultural and linguistic rights within Turkey.
"This peace process is one of the only good things happening in the Middle East today," Pope said.
Another unnamed Turkish militant explained in a video why he left his three children behind in Istanbul to join ISIS in Syria.
The International Crisis Group's Pope said that when it comes to ISIS "there's a conflicted feeling in Turkey.
"We saw one man killed," Zor said, referring to the multiple beheadings and executions ISIS militants filmed on camera and distributed over social media.
"Turkey has all the fractures you have in the Middle East: the sectarian Sunni-non-Sunni divide, the ethnic divide between Kurds and Turks, the political divide between Islamists and non-Islamists," he warned.
In an op-ed in The Wall Street Journal, deputy secretary-general of the presidency, Ibrahim Kalin, argued instead that the U.S.-led coalition should focus on overthrowing Syrian President Bashar al-Assad.