"Dungeons & Dragons," commonly known simply as D&D, burst onto the scene in 1974, long before the word "gaming" came with the implied word "video" in front of it.
"In today's culture, D&D has found its place as a leader and influencer over storytellers across so many different mediums," said Nathan Stewart, brand director for D&D at Wizards of the Coast, the company publishing the game.
Jerry Holkins, co-founder for the webcomic, "Penny Arcade," said he started playing D&D with his young aunts and uncles, much to the chagrin of his mother.
Video game creator Ken Levine didn't have friends to play D&D with when he discovered the game in 1978.
"So I went from having no friends and no social circle to an immediate social circle through 'Dungeons & Dragons,' " said Levine, who is best known as creator of the "Bioshock" series.
Beyond simple game mechanics, the game allowed players to understand how to tell a story or craft an adventure that kept people engaged and entertained.
"Often times when people think of D&D, they think of the dice, maps and groups of friends sitting around the kitchen table," Stewart said.
Holkins played many of the games and felt the games leveraged the vast settings of the D&D's campaigns without tying themselves to its specific rules -- thereby leaning more on storytelling rather than combat.
"Dungeons & Dragons" sessions are social, Levine said.
"Different groups are all playing the same game, theoretically, but in practice there's a lot of culture that isn't really portable from table to table and people approach it with their own style," he said.
From the original rules in 1974 to "Advanced Dungeons & Dragons" in 1981 up to "D&D 4th Edition" released in 2008, the idea has always been to give players a framework to create adventures the way they want to experience and enjoy them.
In addition to new rules, the creative team at Wizards of the Coast announced an original storyline that will extend beyond the tabletop and into digital gaming.
"We're aiming to tell the story not only in the role-playing game, but in other venues so that people can experience it at a number of different levels to a number of different depths," Perkins said.
Players will have a shared story, but what actually happens during a tabletop game will be different than in the digital games.
Stewart and Perkins believe the future of stories in games will be best told through a transmedia experience and they hope players will usher in a familiar future for D&D.
"In reality, that's what the future of video gaming wants to be.