Holmes is accused of opening fire on the crowd, killing 12 people and injuring or maiming 70 others in Aurora, a suburb of Denver.
Holmes says he was insane at the time of the shootings, and that is his legal defense and court plea: not guilty by reason of insanity.
He appeared dramatically different in January when jury selection began for his trial: 9,000 potential jurors were summoned for duty, described as one of the nation's largest jury calls.
Just before the shooting, Holmes was a doctoral student in neuroscience, and he was studying how the brain works, with his schooling funded by a U.S. government grant.
When jury summonses were issued in January, each potential juror stood a 0.2% chance of being selected, District Attorney George Brauchler told the final jury this month.
Holmes also has a sister, Chris, a musician, who's five years younger, the newspaper said.
His family then moved down the California coast, where Holmes grew up in the San Diego-area neighborhood of Rancho Peñasquitos, which a neighbor described as "kind of like Mayberry," the San Diego newspaper said.
By 2011, he had enrolled as a doctoral student in the neuroscience program at the University of Colorado Anschutz Medical Campus in Aurora, the largest academic health center in the Rocky Mountain region.
Holmes was one of six pre-thesis Ph.D. students in the program who were awarded a neuroscience training grant from the National Institutes of Health.
Holmes was "denied access to the school after June 12, 2012, after he made threats to a professor," according to court documents.
Holmes began to fantasize about killing "a lot of people" in early June, nearly six weeks before the shootings, the station reported, citing unidentified sources familiar with the investigation.
After Holmes was caught in the cinema parking lot immediately after the shooting, bomb technicians went to the apartment and neutralized the explosives.
Nine minutes before Holmes went into the movie theater, he called a University of Colorado switchboard, public defender Brady has said in court.
She asked if he had left Aurora yet, reported the newspaper, which didn't identify her.
"It was," Holmes wrote her, according to the Times.
For Holmes, "justice is death," said Brauchler, the district attorney.