(CNN)By now, you probably have a position regarding the controversy over Indiana's religious freedom law.
Schumer mocks Indiana's contention that the state law is simply a mirror of the 22-year-old federal law.
Also, the law was envisioned to protect the religious freedoms of individuals, while the Indiana law also protects private companies, Schumer said.
But other state laws mirror the federal law much more closely than the Indiana law does.
The photography studio lost the case because the court ruled that it could not use the religious freedom law because the dispute was between two private parties and not a government entity.
In a letter expressing concern about the Indiana law, a group of 30 legal scholars argued that what Indiana has done is expanded the scope of the law to the point that religious considerations might trump discrimination concerns.
Yes, the Indiana law makes it clear that individuals and private companies can use the religious freedom law as a defense, he said.
What's clear is that Indiana's law increases the potential pool of people who can defend themselves claiming religious freedom.
Today, it is being championed by Republicans.
Over the years, the law helped a number of people -- a Muslim prisoner won the right to grow a short beard, a Santeria priest was allowed to sacrifice a goat on special religious occasions, and a Native American boy received an exception to his school's policy banning long hair on boys.
But Holbrook says it is no coincidence that the religious freedom laws became popular at the state level just as the gay rights and marriage equality movement made historic steps.
So we've established that the biggest difference between the federal law and the Indiana law is the scope: In Indiana, the law can be raised as a defense in private disputes, while the federal law applies only to government matters.
According to Blackman, the interpretations of the federal religious freedom law are not uniform.
The Hobby Lobby decision, plus the appeals courts rulings, may have opened the door for states like Indiana to be explicit about its expansion of the law.
The outrage over the Indiana law is that it can be used to deny services to the LGBT community on the ground of religious beliefs.
If New Mexico had the same religious freedom law as Indiana, the case would have gone to trial.
But New Mexico has a nondiscrimination law that protects the LGBT community, it and it would have provided a strong counter-argument to the religious freedom claim.