(CNN) -- Roger Ebert was seldom at a loss for words.
He tweeted, Facebooked, corresponded with film lovers and held court with words long after his physical voice was silenced by cancer a decade ago.
Like many of his readers, I didn't always agree with Ebert, but I could understand his viewpoint.
"
The fact that such controversies could make headlines emphasizes the importance of Roger Ebert to the movies, especially now that we live in a pop culture where everybody's a critic.
There had been film critics on TV before Siskel and Ebert -- Judith Crist and Gene Shalit among them -- and film criticism had existed since the dawn of the medium.
The pair -- forever immortalized as "The Bald One" (Siskel) and "The Fat One" (Ebert) -- worked for rival Chicago newspapers and were regularly at each other's throats before being paired on a review show, "Opening Soon at a Theater Near You," in 1976.
And as "Opening" turned into "Sneak Previews" turned into "At the Movies" turned into "Siskel & Ebert and the Movies," the two became equal parts knockabout vaudeville team -- frequently guesting on Johnny Carson and David Letterman's late-night shows, where their debates were very obviously unscripted -- and influential movie critics, willing to showcase all variety of new releases in a pre-Internet age when middle America wasn't besieged by all manner of movie minutiae and clips weren't a click away.
He adapted to the Internet quickly, and though he continued with the TV show -- which moved from public TV to syndication in the 1980s -- it was obvious that the new medium was the right place for him.
"I think that the Internet has provided an enormous boost to film criticism by giving people an opportunity to self-publish or to find sites that are friendly," he said.
Ebert was criticized for reviewing a film he'd only seen a portion of.
These days, when pop culture runs through the very capillaries of the Internet, it's easy to knock film critics.
"However you came to know me, I'm glad you did and thank you for being the best readers any film critic could ask for," he wrote in his last column, "A Leave of Presence," published Tuesday.
I'll see you at the movies."