"There probably does need to be more careful monitoring, but the bottom line is that parents should not take their children off stimulant medication they're currently on and should not be scared to have their child go on a stimulant if that's what they and their doctors decide is the best thing for their child."
Of all the unexplained cases, the researchers found that 10 children, or 1.8 percent of the group, had had stimulant medication prescribed.
However, the Food and Drug Administration in 2006 asked the manufacturers of stimulants, including Adderall, to add a warning to their label saying the medications should not be used in children with structural heart abnormalities or other heart problems.
Strattera, another medication approved for ADHD in children, is not a stimulant medication.
"Review of Novartis safety data has failed to detect an increased risk in sudden cardiac death associated with methylphenidate use."
Although the researchers are confident that the results are not due to any underlying factors -- children with ADHD often have asthma and heart conditions also linked with sudden death, and so these cases were eliminated from the analysis --"one can never be 100 percent sure that there aren't other unknown or undiagnosed issues," says Gould.
He says the research is flawed because, among other problems, it may have underestimated the number of children who were taking stimulants.
When deciding whether to put a child on stimulant medications, both clinicians and parents should weigh the seriousness of the situation, says Gould.
In 2008, the American Heart Association recommended that doctors consider routine electrocardiograms before starting children with ADHD on stimulants or other psychotropic medications, but underscored the need for future research.
Future research should focus on new ways to detect which children are most at risk for sudden death when taking stimulants, says Gould, since not all cases seem to be detectable with routine screenings.