But now, in London at least, those three words have been hijacked by the supporters of Tottenham and Arsenal, who will now no doubt continue to mock each other until the end of the season.
Following Tottenham's 2-1 win over its city rival Sunday, the "gap" is seven points with Andre Villas-Boas' side now occupying third place and more importantly, a qualification spot for next year's Champions League.
But a year on since leaving west London, Villas-Boas is steadily building a team bursting with potential, led by the ever improving Gareth Bale.
Once Aaron Lennon had added a second less than two minutes after Bale's opener, Arsenal was facing an uphill struggle.
Yes, Arsenal did find a route back into the game after the interval when Bale inadvertently directed Per Mertesacker's header into his own net.
"We try to profit from another important fixture and keep doing our job.
"Last year, by this time, Arsenal made the difference of seven points to Tottenham and we know how it finished," Villas-Boas added.
Without a trophy in eight years, on the brink of an exit from the Champions League, the Frenchman is facing the most difficult spell since he arrived at the club in October 1996.
"It is difficult to struggle with defeat because of the effort we put in and the energy level we put in over the 90 minutes was tremendous.
But as fans got back onto the London Underground this evening following the contest, the question marks over Wenger's future remain.
Trailing 2-0 at the break thanks to strikes from Gonzalo Bergessio and Giovanni Marchese, Inter fought back in the second half to turn the game on its head.
Atalanta recorded a 2-0 win at Siena courtesy of Giacomo Bonaventura's double, while Torino and Palermo's game ended goalless.
"The game was very difficult because of the opponent's league predicament," coach Jupp Heynckes told reporters.
It took a while to warm up the engine."
Granada suffered a 2-1 home defeat by Mallorca, Espanyol drew 0-0 with Valladolid and Real Sociedad shared a six-goal thriller with Real Betis as it ended 3-3.