The phone of the first officer of Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 was on and made contact with a cell tower in Malaysia about the time the plane disappeared from radar, a U.S. official told CNN on Monday.
Asked Sunday by CNN about the newspaper report about a purported effort to make a call by the first officer, Malaysia's acting transport minister Hishammuddin Hussein said, "As far as I know, no, but as I said that would be in the realm of the police and the other international (authorities) and when the time comes that will be revealed.
When the plane first went missing, authorities said millions of cell phone records were searched, looking for evidence that calls had been made from the plane after it took off, but the search turned up nothing.
It should have taken the probe and its operators 24 hours to map the first portion of the search area: 16 hours to map, four hours' travel time to just above the ocean floor and back, and four hours for analysts to examine the data gathered.
"We haven't had a single detection in six days," Australian chief search coordinator Angus Houston said.
Houston cautioned against hopes that the underwater vehicle will find wreckage of the plane, which disappeared on March 8 on a flight between Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, and Beijing that should have taken about six hours.
The search area for the Bluefin is in what officials labeled the most likely area the plane could be.
"I stress the source of the oil has yet to be determined, but the oil slick is approximately 5,500 meters (3.4 miles) downwind ... from the vicinity of the detections of the TPL on Ocean Shield," Houston said.
If it is oil, it's not the first oil slick detected as part of the search.
The surface search was among the last, Houston said.
They were certified to last 30 days, a deadline that's already passed.
"Every good effort has been expended, but it's now looking like the batteries are failing, and it's time to start mowing the lawn, as we say, time to start scanning the sea floor," said Rob McCollum, a CNN analyst and ocean search specialist.
Just praying to God.