Art.
This mini-guide is filled with the information you need to get in and out of London while impressing the clients and co-workers and still having time to eat royally, take jealousy-inducing pictures and pick up the kinds of souvenirs the folks back home will actually keep.
The company says it can get you into central London from Heathrow in 45 minutes ($72) and from Gatwick in an hour and 20 minutes ($111).
For quirky design and English eccentric styling, the Ham Yard Hotel in vibrant Soho is a good bet.
Room 302 offers views over the bohemian party district.
The hotel's Iconic City View Room offers floor-to-ceiling windows that allow you to gaze across the Thames River at St. Paul's Cathedral, Big Ben and The Gherkin.
Another London institution that gives international flavors the modern British treatment is Ottolenghi, owned by Jerusalemite chef Yotam Ottolenghi, who's known for his bestselling cookbooks.
All the big international brands are represented in London and there are plenty of high-end department stores, but the best-kept secret is the city's boutiques, which show off the wealth of homegrown fashion.
You can nail the style with a few pieces from Albam in Soho.
For the Houses of Parliament and Big Ben, you'll get the best shot by walking halfway across Westminster Bridge, which crosses the Thames.
For a stunning picture of yourself next to St. Paul's Cathedral, go to the Millennium Bridge, which runs between the cathedral and the Tate Modern art gallery.
The charms of this theater, shopping and eating district are hard to beat.
A few tube stops west of central London, this well-heeled area around Westbourne Grove and Ledbury Road is full of boutiques and cafes, while Portobello Road, lined with charming terraces of pastel-colored houses, has an excellent antiques market.
Highlights include a beautiful Regent's Park Scented Candle, perfumed with oak, bay and rosemary oils, or a Tower Bridge dinner plate.
Former CNN International producer Mairi Mackay is an award-winning Scottish journalist who splits her time between London, Tel Aviv and Jenin in the West Bank.