Editor's note: Meloney Dunning, this year's Real Simple "Life Lessons Essay Contest" winner, describes the heartbreaking day when she decided to say good-bye to her newborn son, who was born prematurely.
I had developed preeclampsia during my pregnancy and spent the last several weeks in the hospital, desperately trying to keep him inside and growing.
The doctors rushed me to the operating room, my frightened husband at my side, and delivered our tiny baby by Cesarean section.
Now Adam and I sat at his bedside.
But what I remember is this: She began to describe to us the difficulties that Phoenix had faced in the last eight hours, the hours during which I had slept peacefully, aided by pain medicine and a false sense of security.
Fleetingly, my heart ached for this doctor who had to deliver such news to us, who had to tell us about the permanent damage that this hemorrhage was causing our son.
She gently explained that we could take time to make some decisions about how we would like to proceed with treatment and left us with our son.
It didn't seem possible that this baby could fail, not this little boy who had spent the last many weeks dancing joyfully on my bladder.
While he still kicked inside me, I told him that if he needed to let go, if he wasn't strong enough for this life, I could handle it.
While Phoenix still kicked inside me, I told him that if he needed to let go, if he wasn't strong enough for this life, I could handle it.
The truth is, it didn't take long for Adam and me to decide that what we wanted was to keep our son comfortable.
What we wanted more than anything was for him to live the time that he had left knowing our touch, knowing our love, feeling that we were with him, no matter what.
She just ushered us to an empty room and told us that she was going to unhook the baby from his machinery.
When the nurse brought my baby back into the room, it was the hardest moment of my life.
I willed my son to know that no matter how hard it was, I was right here.
They belong to us, Phoenix and Adam and me.
Just peaceful release.
In my heart of hearts, I know that we did the best thing we could for our child.
For Real Simple's Sixth Annual Life Lessons Essay Contest, readers were asked: What is the bravest thing you have ever done?