Boko Haram militants killed as many as 2,000 people, mostly civilians,in a massacre that started the weekend before the terror attack on Charlie Hedbo in downtown Paris.
In a way that few nations would, the French people took the attack on Charlie Hebdo as an attack on the very core of their country's constitution and values -- a country where the line between politics and culture blends often seamlessly and where criticism and mockery of public officials rushes toward -- not away -- from controversy.
And Americans can directly relate to attacks on freedom of speech, former U.S.
And the attacks in Nigeria have barely resonated within the country's borders, said John Campbell former U.S. ambassador to Nigeria.
By contrast, the attacks on freedom of speech resounded strongly not just in France, but around the world.
But the reaction to the attacks has given the National Front and Marine Le Pen a slap in the face like only Charlie Hebdo -- which regularly lampooned the party and its leader -- could.
Instead, the demonstrators in Paris proclaimed a national unity cut in stark contrast to the divisive rhetoric of the National Front.
But the attacks by Boko Haram in Nigeria don't stoke the same fears in the West, former House intelligence committee chairman Mike Rogers said.
While Boko Haram doesn't present as much of a threat to the U.S. as ISIS, Rogers believes U.S. officials should be more concerned about Boko Haram, particularly as the economies in African countries are booming and much of the continent is looking for trade relationships beyond the continent.
Without a sense of urgency or a direct threat, the American and European public are unlikely to react to attacks in Nigeria in the same way as they react to attacks in Paris.
In France, around Europe and in the United States, people connected on social media and reacted in real time as they watched each development unfold on cable news or through dramatic videos posted to YouTube.
"There aren't visuals of Baga and what happened there," Pham said of the town ravaged by Boko Haram's militants.