(CNN) -- President Barack Obama and Republican candidate Mitt Romney traded accusations on tax policy Thursday, with both claiming at campaign stops in battleground states that the other's strategies have failed.
In Orlando, Florida, Obama attacked Romney's call for more tax cuts as an example of long-standing Republican policy that was most recently enacted by his predecessor, helping bring the recession that was in place when Obama took office.
The president also made a campaign visit to Virginia, while Romney joined Republican governors -- including several potential running mates -- at an Aspen, Colorado, conference.
"We need you, we're looking forward to your services as president," said Gov.
Polls show that Romney and Obama are statistically even in Colorado and Virginia, while Obama holds a small lead in Florida.
Eric Fehrnstrom, a senior Romney campaign adviser, called the report "a joke" on Thursday's conference call, while Romney economic adviser Kevin Hassett said it fails to include the projected revenue increase from an expanded employment base that Romney's policies would bring.
However, Romney has yet to say which specific tax breaks he plans to eliminate, and the Tax Policy Center report indicated the result of his plan would force the tax burden to shift toward lower- and middle-class Americans.
Romney and Republicans want to extend all the Bush tax cuts for now to prevent any increase, while Obama says the lower rates should not continue for the wealthiest 2% of Americans to bring more fairness to the system.
In anticipation of Obama's Florida trip Thursday, the Romney campaign released a new ad in the state that blames the president for a stalling economy there.
Another new Romney ad Wednesday hammered Obama over unemployment and other economic problems, saying: "Americans need a change.
In a statement, MoveOn.org's executive director said the group was not lampooning the horse itself.
"There's nothing wrong with taking good care of a horse, but there's something messed up about a millionaire who spends twice what most Americans make in a year caring for a horse, but wants to take away people's health care and offshore their jobs," Justin Ruben wrote.