A prosecuting attorney greeted the jury in the George Zimmerman trial Monday with a quote full of expletives, while his adversary decided it was appropriate to tell jurors a knock-knock joke.
Zimmerman, Guy said, "got out of his car with a pistol and two flashlights to follow Trayvon Benjamin Martin, who was walking home from a 7-Eleven, armed" with a fruit drink and a bag of candy.
A witness has said Martin was on top of Zimmerman, Guy said.
"We are confident that at the end of this trial you will know in your head, in your heart, in your stomach that George Zimmerman did not shoot Trayvon Martin because he had to," Guy said.
Tracy Martin is a potential witness, and potential witnesses can be forced to sit outside of the courtroom to keep their testimony from being tainted by other witnesses.
Following Guy's statement, defense attorney Don West came forward to woo the jury.
Who's there?
George Zimmerman who?
... George Zimmerman is not guilty of murder.
"Little did George Zimmerman know at the time in less than 10 minutes from him first seeing Travyon Martin that he, George Zimmerman, would be suckered punched in the face, have his head pounded on concrete and wind up shooting and tragically killing Trayvon Martin," West told jurors.
"At the moment this actually became physical was that Trayvon Martin -- I will use my words -- that Trayvon Martin decided to confront George Zimmerman," West said.
"He called it a 'ground and pound' by Martin, who he said was on top of Zimmerman, beating him."
Shortly afterward, according to West, Zimmerman said Martin "was beating me up, and I shot him."
West showed jurors photos taken of Zimmerman after the fight.
When Zimmerman said he was following Martin, Noffke told him, "Okay we don't need you to do that."
"You did tell him twice to let you know if that guy did anything else," said O'Mara.
Noffke went on to say he only wanted a location of the suspect for officers and that he never told Zimmerman to follow or keep his eye on Martin.