President Abdu Rabu Mansour Hadi's resignation Thursday came after Houthi rebels kidnapped his chief of staff, seized control of key government buildings in the capital, Sanaa, and failed to abide by provisions of a tentative peace deal hammered out Wednesday.
Who is in charge right now really depends on where in Yemen you are, she said.
But there has already been resistance to their attempted takeover of national government institutions from different groups in Yemen, particularly in the south, where there's a long-running secessionist movement, and in the oil-rich province of Marib to the east of Sanaa.
Despite their takeover of Sanaa, it's unclear whether the Houthis really want to take charge of the country.
Under Wednesday's failed peace deal, the Hadi government had agreed to rewrite parts of the country's constitution to give the Houthis more political power in return for them withdrawing their militias from key government institutions and freeing the President's kidnapped aide.
And in September, Houthi fighters suddenly descended on Sanaa, where they took over government buildings, the main airport and a share of power.
The Houthis have more recently forged an alliance with supporters of former President Saleh, said Al Rowas.
Besides battling the Yemeni government and Houthis, it has been involved in international terror attacks, including the failed 2009 attempt to bring down an airliner over Detroit.
While in power, Hadi and the government of Prime Minister Khaled Bahah have been trying to fight AQAP on the ground and also have authorized U.S. drone strikes in the country against terror targets.
"The safety and security of U.S. personnel is our top priority in Yemen," U.S. State Department spokeswoman Jen Psaki said.
Al-Hamdani, the Yemen analyst, said she didn't see an immediate need to pull U.S. personnel out of Yemen.
Since Hadi's resignation, there has been a lot of anger against the Houthis in parts of the country, said Al Rowas, the IHS Country Risk analyst.
CNN's Tim Lister, Nick Paton Walsh and Jomana Karadsheh contributed to this report.