You won't need a costume to take in these attractions, but if you're looking for ideas on what to wear on October 31, you might find some inspiration from these historic -- and sometimes horrific -- destinations.
Funeral transportation is also in the spotlight at the William Lafferty Memorial Funeral and Carriage Collection in West Union, Ohio, with vehicles dating back to 1848.
The Famous Endings Funeral Collection in Dover, Ohio, is a must-see for history buffs curious about celebrity deaths.
If you want to spend the night in the company of such unusual history, check in at the Sturgis House, a funeral parlor turned bed and breakfast in East Liverpool, Ohio.
Delve into its many layers at the New Orleans Historic Voodoo Museum, where admission is $5 for adults.
1.
Chilling attractions in this historic port city include Civil War relics such as bloodied uniforms, an amputation kit and plenty of deadly weapons.
Be sure to stop by the Charleston Library Society, a downtown cultural hot spot where you're likely to find someone who's an expert on the city's darker side.
Thirty miles north of New York City, you'll find Sleepy Hollow, a village made famous by the legend that bears its name.
Various characters and scenes from the legend are said to be based on the people and places of Sleepy Hollow, such as the burial ground at the Old Dutch Church.
Visitors serious about studying this chapter of history can use the museum as an educational starting point, then spend hours, days or weeks traveling through the region touring the homes, historic markers, grave sites and other relics related to witchcraft hysteria.
An international witch hunt might lead you to Scotland, where the North Berwick Witch Trials happened in 1590-1592, some 20 miles from the capital of Edinburgh.
Any time of year you might find a library reading, a festival or an underground tour honoring Edinburgh's darker side.
If you want to find a scary site in a specific area, the HAA website has a "Haunt Finder" and you can also check out past winners of the organization's annual Oscare Awards.