says our Boeing VIP tour guide.
This ain't that.
We're about to walk knee-deep where Boeing gives birth to some of the world's biggest and most advanced airliners, including the 747-8 Intercontinental, the 777 Worldliner and the 787 Dreamliner.
Suddenly, we're surrounded by partly assembled airliners in a room so big it takes on the feeling of an entire world.
This building is so flippin' big that -- years ago -- it created its own inside weather patterns, including vapor clouds.
Boeing paints the tails before they're attached to the planes.
The "Wing Build" area -- where workers attach wings to the planes -- is the loudest part of the entire facility.
"Conversation-restricted area," says one sign.
Guinness calls it the most powerful commercially produced jet engine in the world.
In fact, Boeing says it's so big you could fit the body of a 737 airliner inside it.
Just a few hours earlier, a handful of aviation geeks were hanging out at a hotel next to Paine Field, the airport Boeing uses to test and deliver the factory's planes.
In the entire world, there are only four of these giant planes.
Boeing uses them to ferry big sections of the 787 for final assembly here in Everett.
Who are these people -- these avgeeks?
This month AirlineReporter and a few other aviation sites broke news about the hijacking of an Ethiopian Airlines 767 in Rome about 30 minutes before many "legacy" news organizations, says AirlineReporter founder and editor-in-chief David Parker Brown.
The following day southeast of Seattle, Boeing opens up yet another factory for us to tour.
"Even though we joke that the 737 is the 'Baby Boeing,' it's still a large and complex machine," says Granucci.
— Workers attach wings to the fuselages.
—The planes also get "winglets" — the tiny, upward pointing wings you see on the wingtips of 737s and other airliners.
Driving off the property, we spot a train loaded with brand new wingless 737 fuselages headed to the factory behind us.
"That is so cool," I hear someone say.