St. John, Indiana (CNN) -- With just his dream, determination and hard work, Bill Keith started a solar fan business nearly a decade ago out of his garage in northwest Indiana.
Keith's company, SunRise Solar, steadily grew to the point that he couldn't keep up with the influx of orders.
Even his cardboard boxes were manufactured in nearby South Bend.
"He said he was with the Obama transition team looking for small companies," Keith recalled.
Keith and his wife were asked to come and -- prodded by his wife -- he stood up and told the president about his solar business.
Keith's success story provided good publicity for the White House which called again and again, using Keith to underscore the Obama administration's goal of pushing America towards new sources of clean energy.
There's the photo of him with the president and Vice President Joe Biden in Kokomo, another Indiana city hard hit by the recession, as well as an appearance with Sen. Sherrod Brown of Ohio and many others.
At these events, lawmakers talked about "how I created a solar product, how it's good for the environment, for business," he said.
SunRise Solar started exporting fans all over the world.
While 95 percent of Keith's fans are American-made, he has yet to find a U.S. company that can make the small customized solar panels that make his fans run.
Over the years he begged environmental groups as well as the Commerce Department for help in finding an American company that could make the key solar component.
Keith said the U.S. Customs Department has accused him of using Chinese-made solar panels, in violation of a tough import policy adopted in May at the behest of major U.S. solar companies.
If that anti-dumping fine is levied, Keith said he will have to shutter his business.
I've been trying to get help, no one can help me."
So he went back to the well one more time, pleading with Greg Nelson, deputy director of the White House Office of Public Engagement who Keith said had been his contact with the Obama administration.
I don't know what is possible, but let me talk to a few folks asap.
"When Obama came in office, there were a lot of small business owners who said, 'Hey maybe he'll help break barriers and help owners' or he says he will, but it never trickles down that far to help us," Keith said.
I'm just trying to run my company."