Port-au-Prince, Haiti (CNN) -- Israeli rescuers pulled a 22-year-old man from the ruins of a three-story building on Friday, 10 days after the massive earthquake killed tens of thousands of people.
More than 121 people have been pulled alive from the rubble, the United Nations said this week.
More than $355 million in donations in the United States alone has been raised for the relief effort, but stacks of aid -- baby formula, pain medication, antibiotics and other much-needed supplies -- are sitting on the tarmac and in warehouses at the airport in Port-au-Prince, the capital.
A 5.9-magnitude earthquake Wednesday was the strongest aftershock of the week -- enough to cause considerable damage, the U.S. Geological Survey said, though the extent of damage that any earthquake causes depends on factors such as its depth, its proximity to dense population centers and the strength of structures where it hits.
Still, the 7.0-magnitude quake was more than 40 times stronger than the 5.9-magnitude aftershock, researchers said.
In addition to the aftershocks, bottlenecks at all points of entry -- the airport, roads and ports -- have delayed food and medical aid to the estimated 3 million Haitians affected by the quake.
About 120 to 140 flights a day were coming into the single-runway Port-au-Prince airport, compared with 25 a day just after the quake struck last week.
Renzo Fricke, field coordinator for Doctors Without Borders, said this week staffers had to buy a saw in the market so surgeons could do amputations.
The USNS Comfort, a U.S. naval hospital off the coast, received about 240 patients over 36 hours, said Capt.
"I think when we're totally mature, which will be in the next two to three days, we believe that we'll be able to push about 150 patients through to the ship and off the ship every day for surgical care, and the government of Haiti is giving us guidance exactly on where those patients will receive their follow-on care," he said, adding that officials hope the international community and the United Nations will oversee that process.
A group of rescuers told CNN Friday that each rescue gives them hope to keep working.
CNN's Arthur Brice, Susan Candiotti, Jill Dougherty, Eric Marrapodi, Lisa Desjardins and Elise Labott contributed to this report.