(CNN) -- Beyonce's hit song "Run the World (Girls)" could very well have been the theme music for the world of comedy in 2011.
As "Bridesmaids" surprised just about everyone in the movie business, the major television networks (otherwise known as "SNL's" Wiig, "Mike and Molly's" McCarthy and "The Office's" Kemper's day job employers), picked up a number of comedy series with female protagonists, all of which have since been successful enough to get a full season order.
If there is one big star to come out of this TV season, it is Zooey Deschanel, whose show "New Girl" has beaten lead-in "Glee" in the ratings on several occasions.
"I think probably (after) 'Bridesmaids,' there's just sort of a feeling of more trust from the people in charge that women actually want to see shows and movies that are written and created by women as opposed to sort of shows created by men that women are just supposed to like," Meriwether told reporters in November.
"It's very telling to the times -- our dealing with being broke and being in that time where it's hard to get a job, and I think people can relate to it," Behrs said.
"Girls our age do talk like that a lot of the time," said Behrs.
I don't think it's like, 'Look, we're letting women be funny.'
"What's really interesting to me about the surge of women in television and film comedies is that a large part of it is really driven by 'Saturday Night Live,'" said Gallagher.
It's just kind of surprising to me because if I knew people felt that way I think I would have thrown in the towel a long time ago," she said.
The idea was this family without a mom moves into a town that is dominated and run by moms," said Emily Kapnek, creator of the show, who like Behrs was also a big Carol Burnett fan growing up.
"I think you're getting roles for women that are written by women that come at it differently and feel in some ways more authentic," said Kapnek.
Bark said that women being behind the camera more and more will be the most important thing.
As for right now, "New Girl's" Meriwether said that it's great to see the diversity of shows by and about women being produced.