CARL AZUZ, CNN STUDENT NEWS ANCHOR: Now that is how you get a show poppin'!
AZUZ: The first Friday of every month, the U.S. government usually announces the current unemployment rate.
The unemployment rate only counts people who are actively looking for jobs.
AZUZ: President Obama is back in Washington after a trip to Afghanistan.
BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: This part of the world is the center of a global effort where we are going to disrupt and dismantle and defeat al Qaeda and its extremist allies, and that's why you're here.
LOTHIAN: Mr. Obama had planned on flying to Kabul to meet with President Hamid Karzai and visit U.S. embassy employees.
OBAMA: There are going to be difficult days ahead.
As for whether or not those WikiLeaks documents could cause more problems for the Obama administration, one top aide says that they've weathered these kinds of revelations in the past and that there's no secret about the challenges they're facing in Afghanistan, especially when it comes to corruption in the government there.
The debate is over extending those tax cuts for families that make more money than that.
The fee or tax on products that are imported is called a tariff.
AZUZ: A new deal between the U.S. and South Korea would get rid of a lot of tariffs.
The president had hoped to finalize the deal with South Korea when he was in that country last month.
It's a little smaller than the U.S. state of Maryland, and it's home to about 3 million people.
The prime minister, Binyamin Netanyahu, says he wants the people who were affected to be able to go back to their homes or to alternative housing within days.
NICHOLI WYTOVICZ, SHORECREST HIGH SCHOOL STUDENT: I Facebook after I get home from school, and then I do my homework, and then I Facebook some more.
But for one week, there's a school district in Washington state that's going unplugged as part of a social experiment.
And this is what we mean by unplugged: More than 400 students, teachers and staff have promised to give up texting, Twitter, Facebook and cell phones!
But about Friday's blog on a high school football player who got flagged after praying in the end zone, Rebecca says she would not stop pointing to the sky after scoring.
Salicia, like several of you, talked about the First Amendment and said "the player had every right to say a prayer."
AZUZ: All right, today's Before We Go segment is about someone who's just a giant baby.
Just wait 'til he's full-grown and weighs 200 pounds!
For CNN Student News, I'm Carl Azuz.