"Why are green products often more expensive than ones that don't say they are green or environmentally friendly?
There are also greener products that do not cost extra.
There are cleaning products and paints, for example, that have been certified as meeting tough environmental standards by EcoLogo or Green Seal that deliver the same high-quality performance one expects without costing any extra.
Why are other greener products still more expensive sometimes?
Any new innovative product, whether it is "greener" or not, costs extra initially.
It is also possible, however, to buy high-quality, greener products, at very good prices, at growing numbers of mainstream retail outlets.
"What are the most obvious signs that a company is greenwashing the public with false claims?
Legitimate environmental claims can be certified by independent outside third-party auditors.
Make sure any environmental claim is specific, backed by proof, and, preferably, verified by an independent, outside third-party.
There are certainly efforts underway to provide consumers with additional information about the environmental impacts of their purchasing decisions.
Some particularly savvy green consumers, however, want additional information beyond knowing that a product has been certified as meeting a standard.
Government purchasers in New York, Illinois, California, Minnesota, and other places, for example, require cleaning products to meet the Green Seal or EcoLogo cleaning-product standards.
Now that the information is available, consumers can use the EPEAT information to make their own purchasing decisions.
There are persistent rumors of efforts underway to use the legislative power of the federal government to encourage greater transparency regarding the environmental footprint of a product and to make it easier to share that information with consumers.
Is this happening in any countries?"
Until then, consumers need to be aware that not all green-labeling programs are created equally.
(2) Does the label require a product to actually meet a specific standard?
-- Review the standard to determine whether it covers multiple environmental issues throughout the entire product life-cycle, which includes the raw materials used to make the product, the manufacturing process, transportation and packaging, and the impacts of using and discarding or recycling the product.
Other programs -- including EcoLogo, Green Seal, and the Chlorine Free Products Association -- independently review product test data and visit the manufacturing facilities to ensure compliance with the standard.