But here's what I also know: You wish you could once and for all get your financial house in order.
What follows is your 2010 financial to-do list.
And Build Security is about knowing where to put all that money you free up.
Input your average monthly expenses, and get honest about where your money is going.
So your credit reports, which determine your FICO score, need to be up-to-date and correct (mistakes abound).
Do this now: Go to AnnualCreditReport.com to get your free credit reports from the three credit bureaus: Equifax, Experian, and TransUnion.
Cut Spending by 10 Percent Why it's important: The median pay raise for 2010 is expected to be around 3 percent (the lowest forecast in 25 years).
Do this now: Once you input your income and outflow into the Expense Sheet on my Web site, print it out and circle every expense that is a want (not a need), then figure out how to reduce or eliminate it.
And there's a nice payoff for a higher deductible: Raise your auto and home deductibles to $1,000 or more and your premium cost falls at least 10 percent.
(But do this only if you have an emergency savings fund that can cover the cost of the deductible.
Do this now: Go to FindaCreditUnion.com and look for one that is part of the federal insurance program run by the National Credit Union Administration (go to NCUA.gov and click on Consumer Share Insurance Information and Tool Kit to check).
Boost emergency fund to cover 8 months of living expenses Why it's important: By now I am sure you have started saving.
Get the maximum 401(k) match at your current job Why it's important: If you left it to your company to auto-enroll you in the plan when you were hired, there's a good chance your contribution rate is too low to max out on the match.
Fund a Roth IRA Why it's important: After you max out on the company match in your 401(k), turn your retirement investing attention to funding a Roth IRA.
In 2010 the maximum is $5,000 ($6,000 if you're 50 or older) for individuals with modified adjusted gross income (MAGI) below $105,000 and married couples filing a joint return with MAGI below $167,000.
Leave your retirement funds alone Why it's important: Can't handle the mortgage?
Under "current principal," input the value of your 401(k).
The advantage is that money in a Roth can be withdrawn in retirement with no tax due.
Do this now: Convert in 2010 and you can spread your tax bill over the next two years.
TM & © 2011 Harpo Productions, Inc. All Rights Reserved.