She shared the 2008 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine with her colleague Luc Montagnier for identifying HIV, the virus that causes AIDS, a plague that has killed about 35 million people since the 1980s.
But had Barre-Sinoussi listened to one leader at the lab where she would eventually find fame, she may never have been a scientist at all.
"It just was not done at the time, but I wanted to try," she says.
"He said, 'OK, if you want to be a volunteer here part time, that would be fine with me,' " she recalls.
She worked to find a connection between retroviruses, cancer and leukemia in animals.
I said, 'That is one of my dreams.'
"
She returned to Montagnier's unit; his lab was one of the few still examining the connection between retroviruses and cancer.
No one responded, said Barre-Sinoussi, who wasn't at the lecture.
Barre-Sinoussi says she and Montagnier had never heard of it then, but they agreed to do some research.
It made isolating the virus extremely difficult.
It started to increase quickly but just as suddenly dropped.
"So we knew it had to be something else," Barre-Sinoussi says.
The researchers knew because it started to infect the new lymphocytes from the blood donation and there was enough that a colleague was able to take the first actual image of the virus.
"
"So many people ask me if we were excited about the discovery, but so many young people were dying," Barre-Sinoussi says.
"They just wanted to be close to the place that made the discovery," she says.
Ever since she co-discovered the virus, she had traveled the world to try and help health professionals understand HIV better.
She says the Nobel committee called her lab and her home without luck.
Barre-Sinoussi says she couldn't believe it.
"This is a good thing of the Nobel Prize -- it is easier for me to get an appointment with the first lady or the president of the country," Barre-Sinoussi says.
The attention her discovery has brought Barre-Sinoussi has changed everything, just like her friend warned, she says.
"He called me to congratulate me and said how impressed he was," she says.
'You did.'
And I'm so glad I did not listen."