Along with the best picture and best director nominations, the film also earned nods for best actor (Daniel Day-Lewis), best supporting actress (Sally Field), best supporting actor (Tommy Lee Jones) and best adapted screenplay (Tony Kushner).
"Les Miserables" and "Silver Linings Playbook" both received eight nominations, including for best picture.
Washington received his sixth nomination, a best actor pick for "Flight."
And Field, of "You like me!
"Beasts," a magical-realist fable about a little girl and her father surviving the caprices of weather, emotion and civilization off the Louisiana coast, received four nominations: best picture, best director (Benh Zeitlin), best actress (Wallis) and best adapted screenplay.
...
Wallis was considered too young by some -- "Sorry, Quvenzhane Wallis, but Best Actress Oscar Nods Are for Big Kids," read a headline in The Atlantic -- and Zeitlin's directing competition included Quentin Tarantino ("Django Unchained"), Kathryn Bigelow ("Zero Dark Thirty"), Ben Affleck ("Argo") and Tom Hooper ("Les Miserables").
The love shown "Amour" and "Beasts" meant that "Zero Dark Thirty," "Django Unchained," "Les Miserables" and "Argo" all fell short of expectations, particularly in the directing category.
After its nomination for best picture, the Center for Constitutional Rights, a legal advocacy organization, released a statement in protest.
Instead, though the film received seven nominations, Affleck was left off both the directing and acting lists.
The movie, however, picked up best picture and best original screenplay nominations.
The overlooked directors and other creative types -- such as the people of "Skyfall" (five nominations, but none in major categories), "The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey" (three nods) and "The Master" (three nominations, but no love for the film or writer-director Paul Thomas Anderson) -- can always blame the system.
He got a nomination for co-writing one of the original song nominees, "Everybody Needs a Best Friend."
The 85th Academy Awards are scheduled for February 24 on ABC.