One month before the Winter Olympics begin in the Russian resort town of Sochi -- and in the shadow of last month's deadly bombings in Volgograd -- a huge security operation has swung into gear.
Despite the shockwaves of the Volgograd attack, International Olympic Committee President Thomas Bach said he was confident that Russia would keep the Winter Olympics safe.
The bombings in Volgograd, which lies about 400 miles (650 kilometers) from Sochi but is a major rail hub for passengers traveling to the Black Sea resort, were not the first such attacks Russia has faced.
Andrei Soldatov, an investigative journalist who specializes in the Russian intelligence services, told CNN he believes Russia's militants no longer have the freedom of movement for this kind of large-scale terror attack -- but he's not confident the intelligence services are prepared for the threat of lone suicide bombers.
"My basic explanation is that they're still inspired by the Olympic Games in Moscow in 1980," he said.
There is a slightly higher risk of attack on softer targets in the wider Sochi area, Clements said.
In the wake of the Volgograd attacks, Russian officials said they did not intend to change their security plans for Sochi -- since they were already so developed -- but vigilance will likely be stepped up elsewhere.
"It's a smaller Games, and it's got twice as many personnel," Clements said of Sochi.
But he said Russia faces an "ever-present" threat despite some lulls between attacks.
"In the wake of that attack, a lot of people came out and said, 'We will run in the marathon, we will come out in the street to demonstrate to the terrorists that they cannot intimidate us.'
But Jose Coira, 24, from Houston, is one person who has canceled his trip to the Winter Olympics in the wake of the Volgograd attacks.
Coira, who runs an underwear business, also had a business meeting scheduled in Moscow to coincide with the Sochi trip but will lose out on the chance to launch his product in Russia for the moment.