The secret documents have been made available to several news organizations, including the New York Times and the Washington Post -- and some have been published by WikiLeaks, an organization that facilitates the anonymous leaking of secret information.
The American Civil Liberties Union said in a statement that the documents underscore a need for an independent judicial review of the cases of those being held at Guantanamo.
The file, from 2006 when Gailani was transferred to Guantanamo, includes details of his time as a bodyguard and cook to Osama bin Laden shortly before the 9/11 attacks.
The document says Gailani later became one of al Qaeda's few forgers of travel documents.
Al Kazimi escaped from Afghanistan after the fall of the Taliban in 2001 and returned to Yemen, where he continued to train for terrorist attacks, according to the document.
"Among other previously unknown meetings, the documents describe a major gathering of some of al Qaeda's most senior operatives in early December 2001 in Zormat, a mountainous region of Afghanistan between Kabul and Khost," the newspaper reports.
Among the more remarkable statements is one from a detainee who claimed that bin Laden had written to Yemen's president, Ali Abdullah Saleh, before the September 11 attacks, requesting the release of al Kazimi (who'd been detained in 1995) and another man from jail.
According to the New York Times, the documents show that most of the 172 prisoners still held at Guantanamo have been rated as a "high risk" of posing a threat to the United States and its allies if released without adequate rehabilitation.
Others, according to the New York Times, were not so fortunate despite a lack of evidence.
"The cases of the remaining Guantanamo detainees cry out for independent judicial review."
Pentagon Press Secretary Geoff Morrell and Ambassador Daniel Fried, the Obama administration's special envoy on detainee issues, said in a statement: "The Guantanamo Review Task Force, established in January 2009, considered the DABs during its review of detainee information.