One day after New York officials announced a Doctors Without Borders physician had tested positive for Ebola, another person who treated patients in West Africa developed a fever and was put in isolation at a northern New Jersey hospital.
For all the scares, only four people -- starting with Thomas Eric Duncan, a Liberian who died in a Dallas hospital, followed by two Dallas health care workers who'd treated him, lastly Spencer -- so far have been diagnosed with the deadly virus in the United States.
To this end,  the governors of New York and New Jersey announced Friday their states were stepping up airport screening for Ebola beyond federal requirements for travelers from Ebola-hit countries in West Africa.
"This is not the time to take chances," New York Gov.
Up through that time, authorities said, Spencer limited his public interactions but did not eliminate them.
Bassett said the chances of anyone contracting the virus from contact with Spencer were "close to nil."
Spencer, employed at New York's Columbia Presbyterian Hospital, has been in isolation at Bellevue since emergency personnel took him there Thursday morning.
"He is a committed and responsible physician who always puts his patients first," the hospital statement said.
The doctor contacted Doctors Without Borders on Thursday to report a fever, the statement said.
Bellevue is designated for the "isolation, identification and treatment of potential Ebola patients" in the city, the statement said.
The United States is considering a mandatory quarantine for returning health care workers from West Africa, an Obama administration official said Friday.
But fears about its spread has mounted since the first person diagnosed with the disease in the United States was hospitalized in Texas last month.
The other nurse, Amber Vinson, who is getting treatment for Ebola at Atlanta's Emory University Hospital, is steadily regaining her strength, and her spirits are high, her family said.
In addition, all U.S.-bound passengers from Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea must land in one of the five U.S. airports with enhanced screening for Ebola: New York's Kennedy, Washington Dulles, New Jersey's Newark Liberty International, Chicago's O'Hare International and Hartsfield-Jackson International in Atlanta.