New York (CNN) -- The man who shot and killed two New York City police officers as they sat in their patrol car had posted angry messages on social media, ranting against the government and police, New York Police Department's Chief of Detectives Robert Boyce said Sunday.
On Saturday afternoon, Brinsley fired four rounds at officers Rafael Ramos and Wenjian Liu in the Bedford-Stuyvesant neighborhood.
At a nearby subway station, Brinsley was found dead of a self-inflicted gunshot wound, authorities said.
"Today is the worst day of my life," 13-year-old Jaden Ramos posted on Facebook about the slaying of his father, Rafael Ramos.
"We're just hopeful that this tragedy will not be in vain and that we will be able to heed the words of the Ramos family and bring the city together to heal," said U.S. Rep. Hakeem Jeffries, a Democrat who represents large sections of Brooklyn.
Both had dreamed of being police officers, Bratton said.
"May God grant Officer Wenjian Liu and Officer Rafael Ramos rest.
President Barack Obama condemned the shooting, and called Bratton on Sunday to express condolences for the slain officers.
Brinsley arrived in New York from Baltimore but had a home in the Atlanta suburb of Union City, Georgia.
Brinsley later called the mother back and apologized for shooting her daughter, saying it was an accident and that he hoped she lived, Boyce said.
The two police departments discussed an Instagram post, allegedly by Brinsley, that read, "I'm Putting Wings On Pigs Today."
Baltimore County police also faxed a "wanted" poster to New York police with information about Brinsley.
I know it's a war going on and shoutout to Eric Garner's family and everybody else who lost somebody, but you're not at his house, on his lawn.
This is two (officers).
We must work together to bring peace to our communities," they said in a statement.
"Any use of the names of Eric Garner and Michael Brown, in connection with any violence or killing of police, is reprehensible and against the pursuit of justice in both cases," the statement said.
CNN's Ray Sanchez, David Shortell, Mariano Castillo and Kevin Liptak contributed to this report.