Benghazi, Libya (CNN) -- Doctors at a field hospital in Martyrs Square in Zawiya said Friday that 17 people were killed and another 150 were wounded when government forces attacked the city.
He added that he had ordered an end to the violence there, but his order upset his security forces.
"They told me they are being shot at and they were doing it in self-defense," Gadhafi said.
"If you want to pit against one another, then it's up to you," he said.
In an apparent allusion to calls for government officials to be held accountable for violence against Libyan civilians, Gadhafi said it is bin Laden who should be prosecuted.
"These acts cannot happen by Libyan men," he said.
"I believe Zawiya will toe the line," he said, then directed his final comment to the city's residents themselves.
A formerly pro-government newspaper in Libya reported Thursday that African mercenaries were shooting at unarmed civilians in Tajura, about 25 miles east of Tripoli.
The woman said unarmed people had been fired on indiscriminately.
Many seemed to be African mercenaries, but they may have been from the government or military, she said.
"Where (are) the people?
Witnesses and reports also said the town of Az Zintan was under opposition control.
Gunfire erupted at dawn Thursday as chanting crowds dispersed.
"There's nobody walking in the street, nobody is trying to get out, even to look through the window," said a resident who, for security reasons, did not want to be identified.
Underscoring the growing distance between the Gadhafi regime and Libyan diplomats, the flag hanging outside the Libyan Mission to the United Nations in New York was the opposition flag; the regime's flag had been taken down.
The U.N. Security Council will meet privately at 3 p.m. Friday to discuss taking additional measures against Libya.
In Washington, a senior U.S. military official said the Pentagon was looking at "all options" it can offer President Barack Obama in dealing with the crisis.
Obama called French President Nicolas Sarkozy to discuss the situation, and both presidents "reiterated their demand for an immediate halt to the use of force against the civilian population," the French Embassy said.