Regulators have determined the amount of radioactive iodine released by the damaged reactors at the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear plant was at least 15 times the volume needed to reach the top of the International Nuclear Event Scale, the agency said.
The amount of radioactive Cesium-137, which has a half-life of 30 years, is about one-seventh the amount released at Chernobyl, according to the agency.
Japan's government called for evacuations Monday from several towns beyond the danger zone already declared around Fukushima Daiichi, warning that residents could receive high doses of radiation over the coming months.
Tuesday morning, a fire broke out in a battery storage building in a water discharge area of reactors 1-4 at Fukushima Daiichi, Tokyo Electric said.
Evacuation orders have so far covered about 85,000 people inside the 20-kilometer (12.4-mile) zone, while another 62,000 within 30 kilometers have been told to stay inside, Fukushima prefecture officials told CNN.
Edano said residents of five towns and cities to the north and west of the plant -- Katsurao, Kawamata, Namie, Iitate and parts of Minami Soma -- should evacuate within a month if they have not already done so.
Parts of Namie and Minami Soma are already within the 20-kilometer evacuation radius drawn in the first days of the accident, while Iitate, Kawamata and Katsurao are beyond the 30-kilometer range.
"I would like to apologize from the bottom of my heart to the people of Fukushima and residents of the host towns of the Fukushima power plant for forcing them to go through enormous difficulties due to the accident that occurred in the wake of the quake and tsunami," he said in a prepared statement released through the company.
The water must be pumped out in order to get to the machinery that runs the coolant systems, and Tokyo Electric has dumped more than 10,000 tons of less-contaminated water into the Pacific Ocean in the past week to make room for the stuff -- a move that drew sharp criticism of the Japanese government, which approved the discharge as an emergency measure.
1 to counter a buildup of explosive hydrogen was stopped for the recent earthquake, said Hidehiko Nishiyama, the chief spokesman for the Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency.
1 and No.
Tokyo Electric has said there is little danger of another explosion, but has begun pumping nitrogen into unit No.