Just one small glimmer in the spreading gloom.
My tale was in no way remarkable, and I lead a fairly lucky life -- but it's also all I have ever known.
If you help someone out of a jam, you didn't do enough.
If you can't help someone, you aren't good enough.
"But, then there are times that the sky clears up, and life is just good.
For anyone suffering through depression, try to remember that the lives of those around you are better for knowing you."
"For me, it's not 'feeling sad'; it's like I can't feel anything -- just emotionless, tired, dull, uninterested in everything.
In particular, children, members of the military and some minority populations can find it difficult to speak about or get help for depression symptoms, often because of cultural taboos or lack of information.
The National Institute of Mental Health reports that young people are likely to mask their their depression in behavior that simply seems like sulking, shyness, reluctance to go to school, clinging to a parent or pretending to be physically ill.
According to Army data, 2012 saw a 22% increase in active-duty suicides, and in a study of 72 active-duty service members who had attempted to commit suicide, every single respondent selected "to stop bad feelings" as part of the reasoning for their attempt.
"It is a source of strength to ask for help," Chandler told participants in a Suicide Stand Down roundtable discussion on the issue.
As part of her recovery, she makes it her mission to ensure that people around her feel empowered to speak uncomfortable truths and get the professional help they need.
"
... And people commit slow suicide: They don't take their diabetes medication, or they go into enemy territory where they know they'll get shot."
It was the first time they ever uttered it out loud, and as Williams says, "Each left there a different person."
Opening up to another human being and telling them your deepest, darkest secrets is one of the scariest things you can do, but also one of the most empowering.
Help yourself.
Help others.