Stepfather Ian Rigby said Drummer Lee Rigby was a "precious gift" who had always wanted to serve in the army and was a devoted family man.
In the capital's Woolwich neighborhood, where Rigby was slain Wednesday by two men who drove a car into him, then hacked him with knives and a cleaver, a bank of flowers left in tribute swelled by the hour Friday.
One bouquet , propped in a pair of black army boots, had a message that read: "RIP Brave Soldier.
Another woman, loudly sobbing, asked police officers standing by the growing array of tributes: "Why did this happen, why did this happen here?
A man sharply dressed in a suit and tie brought his toddler son to drop off flowers, each placing their blooms next to the army boots.
Help for Heroes said Friday it had been "overwhelmed with people spontaneously showing their support for the Armed Forces" since the news broke.
One of the two, who approached a man filming the gory scene in the Woolwich neighborhood, suggested that Rigby had been targeted only "because Muslims are dying daily" at the hands of British troops like him.
Two women arrested Thursday, ages 29 and 31, have been released without being charged, police said Friday.
Abu Baraa blamed Wednesday's attack not on his friend Michael Adebolajo -- who he says is the bloody, cleaver-wielding man shown talking in the ITN video -- but on the British government and said there may be more attacks.
British Muslim radical leader Anjem Choudary told CNN on Thursday that he knew Adebolajo, noting the suspect attended demonstrations and a few lectures organized by Choudary's group Al-Muhajiroun.
One talk Adebolajo attended was at a Woolwich community center, he said, noting the group met in such locations because they were not welcomed in mosques.
Witnesses remarked that the two attackers appeared to wait for the armed police to arrive, nearly 15 minutes after their assault on Rigby.
An additional 1,200 police are now on London's streets to reassure the public, police said Thursday.
And on Wednesday night in Essex, a man with two knives was arrested after throwing a smoke grenade at the Al Falah Braintree Islamic Center and demanding someone come outside to answer to the Woolwich slaying, said the mosque's secretary, Sikander Sleemy.
Nearly 100 senior British imams together issued a statement sharply condemning the "sick and barbaric" killing, which they said had spurred "hate-fueled individuals" to attack mosques and Muslims.
CNN's Greg Botelho, Dan Rivers, Jonathan Wald, Carol Jordan, Atika Shubert, Erin McLaughlin and Richard Allen Greene contributed to this report.