NEW YORK (CNN) -- The man tapped as Afghanistan's next intelligence chief faces allegations of drug trafficking and torture that stem from his work as a powerful official in the rough-and-tumble Taliban-birthplace of Kandahar, according to testimony from a top Canadian diplomat and other sources familiar with the new appointee.
Much of the concern stems from the testimony of Richard Colvin, Canada's former deputy ambassador to Afghanistan, who worked directly with Khalid while he was governor of Kandahar from 2005 to 2008.
When asked, he had sort of justifications for it, but he was known to personally torture people in that dungeon," said Colvin.
"I know there is nothing (in terms of evidence)," he said last week.
But Human Rights Watch weighed in on Friday and called on the Afghan president to "drop reported plans to appoint a senior official linked to torture," referring to Khalid.
Wali Karzai, the president's half-brother and once a powerful southern political figure, was gunned down by a bodyguard in Kandahar last year.
But abuse allegations surrounding the former governor are expected to renew old questions from Western allies, just as NATO eyes its 2014 withdrawal from Afghanistan.
He later worked in conjunction with U.S. Special Forces in southern Afghanistan, according to a former senior Afghan official, who declined to be named, citing security concerns.
The NDS is Afghanistan's main intelligence agency and reports directly to the president and National Assembly.
"He had the NDS," Afghan said.
For instance, a former Kandahar governor -- prior to Khalid -- had once maintained a private prison in Kandahar City across from his office, said Afghan, who noted residents were "constantly complaining to us" that they or their friends or their family members had been tortured.
Bismillah Khan Mohammedi, a well-connected Tajik leader with robust ties to the Afghan army and police, was tapped to head up the Defense Ministry, Karzai's office reported.
"This is classic Karzai, and trial balloon floating," said Stephen Biddle, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations.
But his moves have also raised new questions about Afghanistan's rising political players, particularly those expected to take over in the wake of the NATO withdrawal.