New York (CNN) -- America's job crisis is a result of decades of shopping on credit and underinvesting in research to fuel new industries, says analyst Fareed Zakaria.
Fareed Zakaria: The first thing we have to do is to stop doing what we've been doing for almost 20 years, which is pretending we don't have a problem.
Now this wouldn't be a problem if we actually had that money, but we have been consuming using borrowed money for the last 20 years.
That is in a sense, investing in the middle class, because that is investing in the industries of the future, the industries that will create middle-class jobs.
I would argue that we actually need to do a lot more than we did in the 1950s, because in the 1950s there were millions of jobs for semiskilled labor, manufacturing jobs, making steel, making cars.
Zakaria: That's what's produced the semiconductor industry, it was government investment.
Why was that?
No.
This is going to cost money and you're going to have to raise revenue.
If we were to have a 5 to 7 percent consumption tax, it would be the lowest in the industrialized world.
So what do we do?
But then, after we train all these hundreds of thousands of students from all over the world, the cream of the crop, we throw them out of the country, we tell them don't you dare work here, because that would mean you would invent here, and hire people here, create new companies here, file new patents here, pay taxes here.
Zakaria: [New York Mayor Michael] Bloomberg has suggested that everyone who gets a science or math PhD in this country should be given a green card along with their degree.
...
The minute you try to come to the center, if you're a Republican, Rush Limbaugh will denounce you, Glenn Beck will denounce you.
Zakaria: No.
...
Zakaria: The countries that have been able to maintain a manufacturing base, such as Germany, are really worth studying.
That work has not gone to India or China, that work has gone to Germany and Canada and Japan, other high wage, high income countries.