It's mid-morning in Brazil and Melissa, her husband Alex and their four-year-old daughter are also glued to the TV to watch their hero in the season-ending Abu Dhabi Grand Prix.
"We met up with fans from all over; we had a guy from the UK and one guy even took a bus from Boston just to watch the race.
When Hamilton won in Abu Dhabi -- in easier circumstances than expected thanks to an engine problem for rival Nico Rosberg -- and sealed the 2014 championship he was quick to thank his fans in the post-race media conference.
"Lewis has over three million Facebook fans -- with a third of those coming from the UK -- and he has 2.6 million Twitter followers," explained Jon Stainer, managing director of leading sports and entertainment market research company Repucom.
"We saw that Lewis' fans were talking to one another and so we came up with the protocol #TeamLH," explains Roope.
"Around 50% of them are from the UK but then there are a lot in Asia, Brazil and the U.S. 30,000 fans uploaded videos from 50 countries.
Here it is.
https://t.co/HbuiT4jRrw
Thomas, who is originally from Guyana in South America, has also been galvanizing global support for Hamilton through social media for the last five years.
The initial idea was to unite crew members in North America but when I go on Twitter and Facebook I see people from India, the Philippines, the UK and Germany.
Hamilton's mass appeal is not just because he's an F1 driver and now a double world champion.
This hip-hop style and the fact that he spends a lot of time in the U.S. make him one of the few drivers who actually appeals to Americans."
He invites a whole new set of people into F1, people who might be put off by the rich, white, middle-classness of it all."
Melissa races go karts in Brazil and, although she credits her husband Alex for his practical support, she also takes heart from Hamilton.
Melissa has met Hamilton at many Brazilian Grands Prix.
Thomas, like Melissa, has met Hamilton "tonnes of times" in and around grand prix weekends.
"We met him in the pit lane at the U.S. Grand Prix last year, he hung out with us, took selfies and we alluded to the fact that we were getting married and said 'hey you're the first invite.'
"Lewis is genuinely indebted to his fans," said Roope.
Does Lewis Hamilton have what it takes to transcend the track and become a global sporting superstar?