Tunis, Tunisia (CNN) -- Basma Khalfaoui was helping her daughters prepare for school the morning she heard the gunshots.
As the most visible leader of Tunisia's Popular Front -- a coalition of a dozen leftist political parties formed last October -- Belaid had been tasked with countering the rise of the Islamist-led Nahda party, which swept into power following the revolution that toppled longtime President Zine el Abidine Ben Ali in January 2011.
And as a result, he and his family were often the target of death threats, harassment, and on occasion, violence at the hands of his political opponents.
He used to tell me about these threats in his own way in order not to put fear in us."
"I found him in the car.
My only concern at that time was taking Chokri to the hospital as soon as possible."
But this wasn't just another politically motivated murder in another unstable Arab country.
Building on an already growing dissent against the Islamist Nahda party, the opposition immediately took to the streets following Belaid's death.
Just 13 days after the Belaid assassination, Jebali resigned as prime minister.
Leftist supporters clearly lacking the charismatic charm and leadership that died with Chokri, rallied behind Basma who was adored for her strength and determination immediately following her loss.
Following her time at university, she went on to join the Tunisian Association of Democratic Women, a prominent part of the Ben Ali opposition.
My concern is my daughters, but now I feel the amount of responsibility towards the people of Tunisia.
Later that week, Basma and thousands of supporters donning Chokri Belaid masks and carrying posters bearing Chokri's trademark mustache and mole, an image which has come to represent the revival of revolutionary fervor in Tunisia, gathered at her husband's graveside.
Coming to a stop in the center of Bouazizi Square, Basma emerged from behind the flag to address to thousands of supporters and well-wishers.
Though the opposition was able to display its newfound strength without backlash, it was just another day without justice for Basma.
Now, thousands of flowers have grown in Tunisia."