Washington (CNN) -- The justices on the Supreme Court know very well their rulings can send immediate political shock waves, and those just intensify in a presidential election year.
That is true of the current challenges to the health care reform law, which will be argued Monday through Wednesday.
The court under Chief Justice John Marshall clarified the Commerce Clause, concluding state law conflicted with overriding congressional power to regulate interstate commerce.
The new president in fact had asked the court to time its decision until after the election but before being sworn into office.
The justices said that did not violate federal authority over interstate commerce, nor the 13th and 14th amendments.
Attorney for the state Louis Brandeis -- soon to join the court -- successfully argued that long, unregulated hours on the job affected the health and morals of employees, especially those in factories.
The companion cases first came to the court in 1970, and arguments were scheduled for 1971, then postponed until spring 1972, then reargued October 1972, a month before the presidential elections.
Stopping the tally meant Republican George W. Bush, who was then narrowly leading in the decisive state, would become president, defeating Vice President Al Gore.
Here are some presidential election years where the Supreme Court as an institution or the justices became a major campaign issue:
New President Thomas Jefferson had campaigned on remaking the federal courts as well, but it was Chief Justice John Marshall, taking office two months before Jefferson, who succeeded on that front.
In 1876, Democrat Samuel Tilden won the popular vote in the presidential race, with Republican Rutherford B. Hayes also trailing in the initial electoral vote.
It would give Congress the power to overturn Supreme Court decisions that overturned acts of Congress.
The plan unveiled in 1937 ultimately failed, but the Democrat's 12-plus years in office did give him a chance to eventually appoint a record number of justices to that bench.
Warren retired a year later, and Nixon eventually named four justices to the high court.