(CNN) -- An attempted breakout by Muslim Brotherhood prisoners left at least 36 dead Sunday as Egypt's military chief urged supporters of ousted President Mohamed Morsy to quit resisting the new government.
The inmates were among a group of more than 600 who were being taken to a prison north of Cairo, ministry spokesman Hani Abdel Latif told CNN.
An earlier report by the state-run news agency EGYNews said a group of armed men attempted to free the prisoners.
"The Egyptian people are free to choose whoever to govern them, while the armed forces will remain the safeguard of the will of the people and of their choice," he said.
But Muslim Brotherhood spokesman Mahmoud Ghazlan said al-Sisi's comments "are a clear proof that the end of the coup is near," Ghazlan said.
On Saturday, Egyptian security forces arrested more than 350 people at a mosque where throngs of Morsy supporters were hiding, including a handful from outside Egypt -- three Irish citizens, one Turkish and one Syrian, the Egyptian Interior Ministry said.
Mohamed al-Zawahiri and another Islamist leader, Mustafa Hamza, were ordered held for up to 15 days for investigation on charges of joining an organization that seeks to disrupt the social peace and national unity in the country, the state-run news service EGYNews reported.
The new government urged the global community to listen to its side Sunday, accusing international media of being sympathetic to Morsy and the Muslim Brotherhood.
Fahmy also said he greatly appreciated the foreign aid that Egypt gets.
U.S. law bars support of a government that has taken power by extraconstitutional means, but the administration has said it won't make a formal determination as to whether Morsy's ouster was a coup.
And Sen. John McCain, the committee's ranking Republican, said continued American assistance will add fuel to anti-American sentiments in the region.
And Mohamed ElBaradei, who stepped down last week as interim vice president, boarded a flight to Austria, after the interim president accepted his resignation, EGYNews service reported.
CNN's Saad Abedine, Schams Elwazer, Ali Younes, Hamdi Alkhshali, Holly Yan, Ian Lee and Joseph Netto contributed to this report.