Tunis, Tunisia (CNN) -- World powers meeting Friday in Tunisia called for a political solution in Syria and what one diplomat called a "tsunami wave" of pressure to peel away internal support for the embattled regime of Bashar al-Assad.
As the conference unfolded, Red Crescent volunteer rescue crews evacuated seven wounded people in the besieged Syrian city of Homs to Al Amin Hospital on the outskirts of the city's Baba Amr neighborhood, a spokeswoman for the International Committee of the Red Cross said.
The state-run Syrian Arab News Agency (SANA), citing an official source at the Foreign Ministry, said Red Crescent vehicles were dispatched Friday, "for humanitarian considerations, to retrieve the foreign journalists who entered Syria illegally.
SANA said terrorists shot and killed a law enforcement member and wounded two others Friday in Homs.
She urged a negotiated political solution and a democratic transition for Syria, and announced that the United States is providing $10 million for humanitarian efforts.
"Assad can still make the choice to end the violence, save lives and spare his country from descending further into ruin but, if he continues to reject that choice, we and the Syrian people will keep pressure on him until his deadly regime cracks and collapses, because it will," she said.
"Their refusal to continue this slaughter will make them heroes in the eyes of not only Syrians, but people of conscience everywhere.
Clinton said she would address the issue later.
The nations participating in the meeting unveiled a plan for delivering emergency aid.
"To those Syrians who still support Assad, especially members of the Syrian military: understand that this regime has no future," Clinton said.
"The Syrian people have not surrendered, nor will they give up," SNC leader Burhan Ghalioun said. "
The diplomat said the conference communique will endorse the Arab League's request to the Security Council to form a joint Arab-U.N. peacekeeping force after the cessation of violence.