CNN spoke with "The Walking Dead" showrunner Glen Mazzara about the themes and motivations prevalent in season three, what to expect in the second half and the joys of writing while listening to Prince.
We have a very accelerated pace of storytelling, where we're trying to pack as much story into every episode, and yet, spending a lot of time developing our characters.
That's something that our audience responds to: that our characters are always on the knife's edge.
CNN: Speaking of the knife's edge, Michonne and The Governor were two highly anticipated characters at the start of this season.
David Morrissey is an incredibly talented actor who is just interested in finding new layers and nuance to this character.
I've learned a lot about acting from just watching his work.
CNN: The fight scene between The Governor and Michonne in episode eight ("Made to Suffer") is pretty brutal.
CNN: Episode eight also saw the introduction of another new character, Tyreese (Chad Coleman), who's probably best known for his role on "The Wire."
He said, "If you could get Chad, that would be great."
I'd say in the conversation that I've had with the actors -- it's very interesting to see themselves as a part of that group and everyone else is a threat or the other.
...
You could see that there's a lot of work that the actors do on their own characters, and we as writers listen and incorporate those dynamics into the scripts.
The way that the show's been written in the third season is that the characters become more comfortable with killing because they are so used to killing the dehumanized walkers.
The audience knows that Rick and his group are a bunch of good-hearted survivors, but yet it's very possible for The Governor to portray them as blood-thirsty murderers to the people of Woodbury because that's what they were.
CNN: Correct me if I'm wrong, but I believe your Twitter (account) said you were writing the final episode of season three while listening to Prince.
I was listening to a lot of Prince.
Mazzara: Maybe.