"I think a lot of Republicans are looking for a new direction," Oklahoma GOP Rep. Jim Bridenstine, one of those saying he'll back another candidate, told CNN.
Although he already got the nod to keep his post by the House Republican conference after the midterms in November, Boehner doesn't officially get the gavel again until a majority of members vote for him on the House floor on Tuesday.
"This isn't about John Boehner," Bridenstine said.
Kentucky Republican Rep. Tom Massie told reporters he opposed Boehner not because he wasn't conservative enough, but because he failed to give members enough input into legislation like the massive spending bill that passed in December.
Still, he said he was only confident that those who have publicly announced they opposed Boehner would actually follow through and vote for someone else on the House floor.
Even Texas Rep. Roger Williams, who told CNN he didn't always support Boehner, said he thought the Speaker would overcome the challenge, and that he deserved a chance to shepherd a conservative agenda through a new session.
But he made a general pitch to his fellow Republicans on the need to stay united in the new Congress, according to several GOP members who attended the session.
South Carolina Rep. Mick Mulvaney, who didn't vote for Boehner in 2013, wouldn't say how he would vote on Tuesday.
"We had an election for Speaker in November and no one opposed John Boehner.
White House Press Secretary Josh Earnest, asked Monday whether Scalise should stay, took a jab at the GOP, saying who Republicans choose as their elected leaders "says a lot about who the conference is and what their priorities and values are."
As the former chair of a group of influential House conservatives, Scalise is viewed as Boehner's bridge to those on the right, so any effort to push him out could hurt the Speaker at a time he needs to hold conservative support to keep his own job.
North Carolina Republican Sen. Richard Burr, who is a close personal friend of Boehner's said the Speaker will have to guide House members to concentrate on things that are doable.