While aides in both parties say it's likely Congress will resolve that dispute, Republicans are still licking their wounds after a public backlash over how they handled those issues and fear that Senate Democrats will drag out the fight to score more political points in an election year.
Democrats, who run the Senate, and Republicans, who control the House, acknowledge that outside of the payroll tax cut bill no major legislation is expected to make it through Congress this year.
But high on the agenda at that meeting for House Speaker John Boehner is likely to be an effort to bridge severe divisions with his own rank-and- file, many of whom questioned his leadership over the course of several showdowns with the White House and Democrats last year.
A top Senate Democratic leadership aide said the party isn't overly concerned.
That's because Democrats believe GOP obstructionism is at such a high level now -- where filibusters are routine -- they already expect a major fight on every nominee.
Some in the GOP are wary the White House and Senate Democrats will try again to pass a surtax on millionaires -- something even some Democrats don't support -- as a way of painting the GOP as protectors of the rich.
Senators also want to pass a highway bill that would fund road and bridge construction for the next two years.
Democrats say they expect the White House to reject the plan -- because the administration has said it can't finish its environmental review by then -- but Republicans are promising to continue to hammer the administration on the issue.
Even without much hope for actually passing these bills House Republican aides stress they will continue focusing on measures to boost the weak economy to show they are responding to voters' concerns, and they emphasize that many of these proposals have had Democratic support.
In addition to the bills on jobs, the House also is expected to take up legislation to make more transparent members of Congress' stock trades and other financial transactions.
It will then continue all year with a myriad of bills Democrats think will prove to a wary public they are putting jobs first.
Democrats need to pick up 25 seats to regain control of the House -- a high hurdle, but one many Democrats feel is within reach because they think voters will blame Republicans for the gridlock in Washington.
The recent announcement by Sen. Ben Nelson, a conservative Democrat from Nebraska, that he would not seek re-election is seen by Republicans as another sign Democrats will lose majority control.