"This law will only make the rampant racial profiling of Latinos that is already going on in Arizona much worse," said Alessandra Soler Meetze, executive director of the ACLU of Arizona.
Republican Arizona Gov.
"Racial profiling is illegal," Brewer said after signing the bill Friday.
"Our churches and pastors in Arizona are outraged about the significant threat this anti-immigrant law will have in the lives of Arizona's Latinos," said the Rev.
In addition to signing the law, Brewer also issued an executive order that requires training for local officers on how to implement the law without engaging in racial profiling or discrimination.
He said he is concerned that calls to boycott Arizona businesses and tourism will harm the state.
"Quite simply, this law is a civil rights disaster and an insult to American values," said Mary Bauer, legal director of the Southern Poverty Law Center.
But a national Republican leader said Thursday that Arizona is just filling a void left by the federal government.
"This law doesn't accomplish that," he said.
But Boehner said at a briefing Thursday that "there's not a chance" that Congress will approve the measure this year, especially after the recent passage of a health care reform bill.
"This is an issue of concern to all citizens of the Americas, beginning with the citizens of the United States, a country with a very rich tradition of immigration and respect for immigrants who have come to lead a better life," OAS Secretary General Jose Miguel Insulza said.
In Arizona, two popular singers also will voice their opposition.
Brewer signed into law last week is a piece of legislation that threatens the very heart of this great state," Ronstadt said.
Arizona, which is on the Mexican border, has about 460,000 undocumented immigrants, the federal government says.
The other states with more illegal immigrants than Arizona are Texas, Florida, New York and Georgia.
Fifty-seven percent of those surveyed said they worried that they, a family member or a close friend could be deported.