New York (CNN) -- Northeast Florida State Attorney Angela Corey has made it clear that she alone will decide whether George Zimmerman will be charged in the shooting death of Trayvon Martin.
They said they had lost contact with their client over the previous two days and revealed Zimmerman's unusual behavior -- including phone calls to Fox News host Sean Hannity and the special prosecutor, Corey.
Clients fire attorneys every day, for no reason or any reason.
Not surprisingly, within hours of the now-infamous withdrawal, Corey issued a statement saying she would be holding her own news conference within 72 hours "to release new information regarding the Trayvon Martin shooting death investigation."
By all accounts though, Angela Corey is a seasoned career prosecutor who doesn't bend to public opinion or political pressure.
Corey, a devout Episcopalian, references her faith in discussing her cases, which some would say is a no-no for a prosecutor.
In discussing the investigation into the shooting death of Martin she said, "What we are asking people to do is take a step back.
If she files charges against Zimmerman, it would be wise not to "overcharge" the case.
Florida's law states that a person who is not engaged in an unlawful activity and who is attacked in any place where he or she has a right to be has no duty to retreat and has the right to stand his or her ground and meet force with force, including deadly force ... to prevent death or great bodily harm.
So even if Zimmerman killed Martin, he was justified in doing so if he believed he was in danger of being killed himself or of suffering great bodily harm.
Former Florida State Rep. Dennis Baxley, the co-sponsor of the law, told me by phone that the law doesn't apply to Zimmerman if he pursued Martin and was the initial aggressor.
He was unarmed.
Zimmerman tells the dispatcher he is following Martin.
Martin notices Zimmerman is following him and tells his girlfriend, Dee Dee, with whom he is on the phone.
Martin asks Zimmerman why he is following him.
Three witnesses saw Zimmerman straddling Martin in the grass.
A tenet of our legal system is that when there is conflicting evidence, let a jury decide.
The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Sunny Hostin.