Who wouldn't have been?
Some of these "Dreamers" had been deported to Mexico by the Obama administration, though President Obama has repeatedly said that his administration is not looking to deport Dreamers--the name taken by young immigrants who are in the U.S. without papers.
Then, on July 22, all nine linked arms and marched across the border into the United States.
Pending those hearings, the nine have now been released into the waiting arms of family members within the United States.
Ditto for immigration reformers who are split between those who back the Dream 9 and those who want to sacrifice them for political expediency.
David Leopold, former president of the American Immigration Lawyers Association, callously dismissed the Dream 9 action as a "publicity stunt" and a distraction.
The letter -- signed by Reps. Mike Honda, D-California, Raul Grijalva, D-Arizona, and Ruben Hinojosa, D-Texas, among others -- describes the activists as "victims of our broken immigration policy" who "deserve to come home to the United States."
A president can't deport nearly 2 million people in under five years, split up hundreds of thousands of families, detain thousands of undocumented children without giving them access to legal counsel, and expand Arizona-style immigration enforcement nationwide through the maniacal program known as "Secure Communities" without raising a stink.
Didn't Obama say that the Dreamers were Americans except for legal status?
Besides, Obama made quite a show -- before the election -- of announcing that his administration was sparing Dreamers deportation by offering deferred action and temporary work permits.
Maybe there would be more compassion on the Potomac if these young people hadn't embarrassed Obama, put the lie to the fairy tale that this administration has been compassionate toward immigrants, divided self-serving organizations such as the lawyers group AILA, and pitted one group of immigration reformers against another -- those who want to protect the Dreamers versus those who want to protect the president.
I think that many of these young people have a sense of entitlement, like most young people in the United States.
The Dream 9 are back where they belong -- in the United States.
The fault lines it exposed within the immigration reform movement remain.