(CNN) -- The phenomenal success of "Modern Family" has been a game changer for its entire cast, including actor Jesse Tyler Ferguson.
After dating for more than two years, Ferguson and his boyfriend, Justin Mikita, decided to take the next step.
Ferguson and Mitka started the Tie the Knot foundation.
Ferguson: We kind of felt like the only way to legitimize why we wanted to do this was to announce that we were actually engaged.
But, in the context of our foundation, it felt like (it was) the right time to tell people.
I think it sounds so pretentious and like that "Saturday Night Live" skit with Will Ferrell and Rachel Dratch in the hot tub eating turkey.
CNN: A lot of boyfriends, and girlfriends in Maine, Maryland and Washington got some good news on Election Day when same-sex marriage was legalized in those states by popular vote.
Obviously, I'm so happy these states won marriage equality.
I just feel like it shouldn't be up to the majority to vote on a minority's civil rights.
I feel like there's a fear that the definition of marriage will be changed.
We just want to add to who has the right.
CNN: And whether you're voting or getting married, who doesn't like to wear a nice bow tie, right?
We'll start a bow-tie line and funnel the proceeds into a foundation for marriage equality.
CNN: I think people will appreciate the symbolism.
Ferguson: I mean it really is.
I've gotten engaged since meeting these people.
We'll go to a birthday party or get together at someone's house and bring our husbands, wives, fiances, boyfriends and girlfriends, and it feels like a huge extended family.
We're always checking in with one another, and some walls definitely go up to protect some people.
CNN: I can only imagine what a "Modern Family" gay wedding will be like.
I'm also really excited to be married.
Ferguson: Well, we're not going to be redefining the marriage ceremony.
I haven't been to the Catholic Church in years so I would feel really weird to try and bring in those traditions -- it's just not us.
Ferguson: It's something we've talked about.
And we both do.
But, yeah, we both really want kids very much.