The embodiment of the rule of law internationally has been the U.N. Charter and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights -- direct results of the devastation inflicted by the Nazi regime in Germany during the Second World War.
In 1945 the U.N. Charter was ratified by the U.S., the UK, and the majority of the 50 states who had originally agreed to this framework.
Article 1 makes clear that the main purpose of the U.N. is to "maintain international peace and security and to that end to take effective collective measures for the prevention and removal of threats to the peace" and to act in accordance with justice and the principles of international law.
But this is not what happened 10 years ago at the behest of U.S. President George W. Bush and British Prime Minister Tony Blair.
getting in first) on the basis of a perceived future threat.
This argument, which was false, became the main basis for invasion because the only other route to war had been closed off by international law.
Tony Blair insisted to the British public that he would only support a war if a second Security Council resolution authorising the action was passed, but the resolution never came.
This was why Bush and Blair were not prepared to allow the weapons inspectors, who were in Iraq, any more time.
Kofi Annan, then the U.N. Secretary General, told the BBC in 2004 that the Charter had been breached and that the invasion was not sanctioned by the Security Council.
I believe George W. Bush and Tony Blair should be tried for war crimes as defined by international law.
Four transgressions were agreed -- war crimes, crimes against humanity, genocide, and the crime of aggression.
Whilst the act of aggression cannot be prosecuted, war crimes committed thereafter can be.
Getting U.S leaders hauled before the court is even more problematic -- the Security Council could refer Americans to the court, but the U.S. is a permanent Council member and can veto any potential referral.
The whole episode regarding the Iraq War is a tawdry tale that has subverted the rule of law and tarnished the reputation of international law.
It is time for Bush and Blair to be thoroughly, independently and judicially investigated for the crimes I suggest have been committed and it is time for the crime of aggression to come into force.