Los Angeles (CNN) -- Los Angeles Clippers co-owner Shelly Sterling asked a Los Angeles probate court Wednesday to uphold her negotiated sale of the team for $2 billion despite her husband's objections, her attorney said.
But Mr. Sterling's conduct in reneging on the sale requires her to do so," O'Donnell said.
"Bottom line, Donald Sterling does not want to sell the team," attorney Bobby Samini said.
But O'Donnell said that three physicians have certified that Donald Sterling lacks the mental capacity to function as a trustee of the complex trust.
You have massive amount of 150 real estate holdings, and it requires a person to run the business who is competent, and the doctor -- three doctors -- have said that he lacks the mental capacity," O'Donnell said.
Dr. Meril S. Platzer, a California neurologist, examined Donald Sterling on May 19 and found he "is suffering from cognitive impairment secondary to primary dementia Alzheimer's disease," court papers said.
Dr. James Edward Spar, a specialist in geriatric psychiatry who examined Donald Sterling on May 22, said Sterling suffers "mild global cognitive impairment" and "the overall picture is consistent with early Alzheimer's disease, but could reflect other forms of brain disease," court papers said.
Under the trust agreement, if Donald Sterling became mentally incapacitated, he would be removed as a trustee, O'Donnell said.
Adam Streisand, the attorney for Ballmer, said his client was hoping for a speedy court date.
So we are here because Mr. Ballmer is insisting that the court bless the transaction," Streisand said.
I have worked for 33 years to build the team," Donald Sterling said.
"To date, I have not received Donald's written consent to the sale of the Clippers to (Ballmer) for $2 billion," Shelly Sterling said in court papers.
In a statement Tuesday, Sterling said he has apologized for the remarks and his apology is sincere.
He also made inflammatory comments to CNN's "Anderson Cooper 360" about African-Americans, which the NBA had planned to use as part of its evidence against him in an owners' meeting where a vote would be taken on whether to terminate his ownership rights.