"And by coincidence, I have one in the shape of South Carolina," the Kentucky Republican said Wednesday, drawing laughs.
As Paul blitzed across the Hawkeye State this week, holding events at Iowa GOP offices and campaigning for local candidates, he hardly played coy to the question of whether he was running for President.
His combative answer to a reporter's question -- combined with video of Paul appearing to avoid an immigration activist — absorbed most of the attention surrounding his visit.
Asked if he still supported phasing out foreign aid to Israel, Paul fired back at a reporter for "mischaracterizing" his position and staunchly denied that he had ever proposed such legislation.
In Iowa, Paul stressed that he never introduced legislation that solely "targeted" Israel and argued that he strongly favors sending money to the country.
Paul said he was stepping away to do interviews with local media.
You have social conservatives in Iowa who very much feel the need to be in solidarity with Israel -- not just Christian conservatives, but it's also national security conservatives."
Still, Kochel thinks Paul is the current frontunner in Iowa among prospective candidates.
In the 2012 Iowa caucuses, former Rep. Ron Paul of Texas finished with 21% of the vote, just slightly behind Romney and former Sen. Rick Santorum — who tied for first at 25%.
Mainstream Republicans, with the support of Iowa Gov.
"Paul is attempting to pivot from being 'Son of Ron,' so to speak," said Dennis Goldford, professor of politics at Drake University in Des Moines.
Paul spoke at five GOP offices this week and five other events in a tour that took him around the state in a 730-mile loop.
Part of that includes a push to speak out against domestic surveillance programs and mount a strong defense of the Fourth Amendment.
In Northwest Iowa, home to many of the state's social conservatives, Paul placed an evangelical spin on his message.
But that's about as deep as Paul waded into social issues during the trip.
Goldford said if Paul doesn't devote more attention to those topics, someone else will step in to fill in the void.
Paul left Iowa before this weekend's annual summit hosted by the Family Leader, a group that's influential with social conservatives in the state.
Paul said he couldn't make it due to a scheduling conflict.