A woman is in the hospital after she was mauled by a bear while walking in her central Florida neighborhood on Monday.
Tom Shupe thinks black bears have a people problem.
Instead of scaring it away, too many people say: "Oh, isn't he cute.
But it's the beginning of the end for that bear, because the people are teaching it to associate the smell of people with food.
The people call 911: "Do something about your bear."
But the bear has learned people equals food, and does it again.
People say our conflicts with wild creatures are our fault because we encroached on their habitat.
Why?
We put out all sorts of food for them: lawns, gardens, shrubbery, birdseed, grill grease, garbage, dumpster waste.
We should be celebrating a conservation success story that is unique on the planet.
Over the last century and half, forests grew back on abandoned farmland; a century ago we ended commercial hunting and began restoring wild bird and animal populations.
We've become forest people -- yet we spend 90% of our time indoors.
There we get most of our nature on digital screens, where wild creatures are often portrayed as pets performing all sorts of antics.
He's peppered the landscape with hunting restrictions and enacted all sorts of laws against hunting, firearms discharges, even bow-and-arrow use in some places.
Estimates say about 100 people die in hunting accidents, mainly in cases of mistaken identity.
These accidents hospitalize another 30,000 people.
Black bears are shy and docile creatures motivated by hunger and fear, but they, like deer, beavers, turkeys, waterfowl and others, were almost wiped out in the United States by the end of the 19th century.
Between 1900 and 2009, black bears killed 63 people -- 86% were in the last 40 years.
It isn't.
Nuisance wildlife control people say tossing rocks at coyotes would help reinstill their fear of people.
Conflicts between people and wild animals will continue to rise as both populations grow into one another.
Reinstilling their fear will help.