That moment passed when then-Gov.
Then I had children, so...," she said, her voice trailing off.
The path to the presidency is especially challenging for Republican women and it contrasts sharply with Democrats who -- as buzz grows around Hillary Clinton -- may be poised to nominate the first female presidential candidate of either major party.
And there's a perennial hope among some conservatives that former Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice will run, though she's said she has no interest in the position.
"Women should naturally be considered for the highest office in the land," Snowe said.
In each of the past 10 election cycles, GOP women have won a smaller percentage of primary elections for U.S. House seats than have their Democratic counterparts, according to a study by Rutgers University's Center for American Women and Politics, and only twice -- in 1994 and 2010 -- have more Republican than Democratic women run in primaries.
This year, the PAC is supporting Joni Ernst, a Senate candidate from Iowa who won her primary on Tuesday, among other women.
The other challenge female candidates to federal office face is an "ideological shift to the far right among the Republican primary electorate," the study found.
The Republican Party is keenly aware of its problems in both recruiting and supporting female candidates and attracting women voters.
But some senior Republican women say that despite plenty of lip service paid to elevating women within the party, representation at the federal level is paltry, and the performance trend in primaries shows fewer Republican women are winning in those races than just two decades ago.
"It's unfortunate that there's this attitude and perception within the Republican Party that are more aspirational when it comes to women," Snowe said.
Hutchison said.
"That makes it harder for us to say, 'Yes, I'm going to run for president and go to New Hampshire, Iowa, and South Carolina for weeks on end' -- especially if they are in office already and away from their families.
"Republican women have to do what Hillary Clinton is doing.
... She's a good example of a case study for how women should model their efforts for running for office."