(The Frisky) -- Matchmaker and dating coach Rachel Greenwald is responsible for 750 marriages, and she doesn't believe you will find the love of your life by waiting for him/her to spontaneously appear in line at the grocery store or sit next to you on the subway.
Sure, there has to be an intersection of luck, timing, and opportunity, to find love," she says, "But you increase your odds when you do something about it.
I had the opportunity to chat with Rachel and get a singles state of the union.
Rachel points out that we are willing to put effort into other things in our lives -- our careers, our friendships, our hobbies, our living space --but we expect our love lives to come effortlessly.
"You wouldn't expect to be a CEO in five seconds," Rachel points out.
An important step in working on your love life is letting people know that you're looking.
Rachel suggests thinking of all the people in our lives as possible networking opportunities.
When you mention in casual conversation to your "village" that you are looking to meet someone this year, ask "how."
"How?"
There's no stigma about dating online anymore -- one-fourth of the people who got married last year met online.
But Rachel also recommends Twitter as an alternative source.
You can search something like "Singles, New York, film lovers," and find groups that meet in your area.
One-third of married people met through introductions by friends.
"Treat Facebook like an online dating profile," says Rachel.
Rachel suggests crafting the image you want to project on Facebook.
Hey, you already know someone in common.
They know a thing or two about relationships, but more importantly, they know other single people who are marriage-minded.
"Doing online dating with a bad profile picture or going to a singles event and leaving after you scanned the room once is like looking for a job with a poorly written resume or applying for a sales job [when] you're an accountant," says Rachel.
Rachel says that there's no shame in hiring a dating coach.
Why?