Several well-known examples exist like the UK, which has the National Health Service, and the Canadian public health care system.
Brazilians have both a private and public health care system, which was overhauled in 1988.
About 80 percent of Brazil's population relies on public care, while the wealthiest 20% can afford private health care, according to a Center for Strategic and International Studies report.
Since establishing a national health plan in 1999, Rwanda has insured about 91% of its population with health care -- a greater percentage than the United States.
But the country faces challenges from an increase in health services and making contributions more affordable for its poorest citizens, according to a WHO report.
But the addition of millions of people to a health care system strained the existing structures, prompting criticisms of long waits, poor quality of service and shortage of service.
Korea's single-payer program has "been successful in mobilizing resources for health care, rapidly extending population coverage, effectively pooling public and private resources to purchase health care for the entire population, and containing health care expenditure," according to a report published in Health Policy Plan.
By 2004, it began a mandatory health insurance program with the aim of providing the entire population with basic health care.
Its National Health Insurance Company is the sole buyer of health care services and organizes emergency, primary and secondary care locally, according to a report by the European Observatory on Health Systems and Policies, a joint partnership between European governments and the World Health Organization.
By the 1950s, the government implemented free comprehensive health care.
Chileans can opt for public care or get coverage from private health insurance companies.
A 7% income tax funds the public health care system, the Fondo Nacional de Salud, according to an analysis of health care reform in Chile.
But the issue of equity in health care persists.
China has seen increased life expectancy and reductions in infant deaths, but health observers stated in the WHO report the need to improve delivery of care.