Both Zimmerman's and Martin's mothers expressed no hesitation Friday in separate court appearances as to whose panicked voice is heard screaming during a 911 call from that February 26, 2012, night in Sanford, Florida: Each said it was her son.
Why?
"I haven't heard him like that before," she said as her son wiped away tears in the courtroom.
"What I hoped for," said Fulton, "is that nothing happened and he'd still be here.
More than a year ago, the tale of what happened between Trayvon Martin and George Zimmerman captured the nation's attention and shone a spotlight on gun laws as well as race -- given that Martin is African-American, while Zimmerman is Hispanic.
They called to the stand the 911 dispatcher who told Zimmerman not to follow Martin, though he did anyway.
And of course, there was the testimony of Rachel Jeantel, who said she'd been on the phone with her friend Trayvon Martin in the minutes before his death.
He told CNN's Brooke Baldwin on Friday night that "once the jury decides who was screaming for help (on the 911 call), if they can, I think everything else falls in line."
But so does Gladys Zimmerman of her own son, the defense lawyer says, arguing that "all the other evidence would suggest" that the screaming voice is indeed that of George Zimmerman.
Sybrina Fulton and Gladys Zimmerman weren't the only members of their respective families to take the stand Friday.
Jahvaris Fulton, Martin's older brother, testified Friday morning about the voice on the 911 call.
Bao said the muzzle of Zimmerman's gun was likely in loose contact with Martin's clothing, indicating that the teen was shot at close range.
In testimony that at times turned contentious, Bao also said Martin did not die right away after the gunshot.
Bao would not confirm that timeline -- despite West's repeated attempts to have him do so -- because he said he was not there.
When asked about them, Bao said, "I typed out potential answers to your potential questions."
The defense attorney pressed Bao, too, on the collection of Martin's clothes and scraping of his fingernails.
Late in Friday's court proceedings, O'Mara made his pitch for acquittal -- arguing that Zimmerman acted in self-defense; there was no direct evidence of ill will, hatred or spite surrounding Martin's killing; and that it was still unclear who could be heard screaming on the 911 call.