On one, he made 20 individual slots for candles, one for each slain child.
He drove into town, unsure of his destination.
Just enough room to fit the shelves, and just enough space to let people hug, pray and cry.
He and his wife, Darla, placed the shelf for the children in front and the one for the educators in the back, as if still watching over their young students.
More people came.
"We did it to help ourselves, and maybe the town," said Henggeler, a resident of 15 years.
The pain in Newtown is suffocating.
It's just too damn painful.
Newtown is grappling with other pressing questions: How does the town handle 26 funerals with only one funeral home?
And it was.
The town of 27,500 had great schools and great people.
But the town was best known for its 100-foot flagpole that sits, literally, in the middle of Main Street.
The 12-foot by 18-foot flag now flies at half staff, a sad reminder hovering above the town's center.
"We got a call that there was a lockdown at the schools," she said.
At one point, they were told the library was in lockdown.
One librarian, she said, plans to attend at least six funerals.
"We just can't believe it," she said in the gentle voice of a well-schooled librarian.
One book that's being shipped is called "Tear Soup," considered one of the best at helping people, especially children, cope with tragedy.
Just up the road, Ken Henggeler stood near the memorial with his wife and 22-year-old stepson, Eric Puffer.
His friends teach at the school and "students that they used to have are now dead."
"It just doesn't make any sense why he would go into school where these kids can't even defend themselves."
Seeing how many candles there are, it's just terrible."
Jan Philbrick, from the nearby town of Redding, stopped to hug people standing at the memorial.
He taught woodworking, architecture and robotics at nearby Danbury High School for 37 years, retiring three years ago.
"I taught high school, but I had a special place in my heart for young children."