The national controversy over a surge of Central American immigrants illegally crossing the U.S. border established a new battleground this week in a Southern California small town where angry crowds thwarted detained migrants from entering their community.
Counter-protesters squared off with the demonstrators, and a shouting match erupted over the nation's immigration system, which recently has been overwhelmed with a tide of Central American minors illegally entering the United States alone or with other children.
Tuesday's busloads of detained Central American immigrants didn't include any unaccompanied minors, said Murrieta Police Chief Sean Hadden, who put the number of protesters at 125.
The children on the buses were apparently in the company of relatives or other adults, said an official with the National Border Patrol Council.
"This is a failure to enforce federal law at the federal level," Mayor Alan Long said in a statement Monday about the pending arrival of the 140 immigrants to the U.S. Border Patrol station.
"It's not against the immigrants," he said.
Long said that neither side in the national debate is coming up with a solution: "The problem still is there.
The U.S. government is scheduled to send another group of undocumented immigrants to Murrieta for processing on Friday, the union official for Border Patrol agents said.
Mothers and their children on these buses have suffered through enough trauma."
The U.S. government earlier flew the 140 Central American immigrants from south Texas to San Diego.
Among the group, 10 children were taken to local hospitals, though it's unclear why, Zermeno said.
The U.S. government is struggling to detain and accommodate an influx of undocumented immigrants, particularly a wave of unaccompanied children from the Central American countries of El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras.
The furor in Murrieta illustrated the conflict between protecting the borders and ensuring the safety of detained immigrants and children.
Other protesters told CNN affiliate KGTV said they wanted immigrants to follow the legal process to enter the United States.
"Everybody that wants to come to this nation is entitled to, but they should come the right way," Bob Cuccio told the news outlet.
"If these children were from Canada, we would not be having this interview," Morones said.
The Obama administration has accused syndicates in Latin America of waging a deliberate campaign of misinformation about relocating to the United States that has caused people in poor Central American countries and Mexico to risk their lives to cross the U.S. border illegally.