(CNN) -- The player tumbles to the ground, writhing around as if he has been mortally wounded.
One man who has also never been short of opinions on the subject of cheating is former World Anti-Doping Agency chairman Dick Pound.
Pound believes there are five main reasons why athletes resort to performance-enhancing drugs -- considered by most sports fans to be the worst form of cheating.
A desire to win at all costs -- even if that means lying.
Individual pressure from coaches -- who get paid better if they coach winners, and that can apply for administrations too.
On the latter point, the sad truth is that many do successfully beat the drug testers, as did Armstrong and his former U.S.
My strong belief is that they are trying to level the playing field, knowing that there are so many others doping that they will be disadvantaged if they don't," says Cashmore, whose low opinion of drug testers and high hopes for healthier athletes makes him that rarity -- a public advocate for the use of drugs in sports.
"
It is an easy way to make money.
Some athletes will dope for four to five years without being caught and will make a lot of money in that time," the former 800m specialist, now 38, told CNN.
At the other end of the scale, lying to earn more money is rampant in African football, where countless "promising" players have concocted false -- and younger -- ages in a bid to appear more enticing to any potential Western suitors (and thus secure a way out of poverty).
A country of just 16 million, it was one of the dominant powers in sports such as swimming and track in the 1970s and early '80s -- which was later explained by the state-sponsored doping system that was uncovered after the fall of the Berlin Wall.
After his "Hand of God" goal in the 1986 World Cup helped Argentina beat England, one of football's all-time greats justified his deception by referencing his country's unhappiness over the 1982 Falklands War.
We are often told that tiny factors make the difference in top-level sports, yet the measures used to gain them are often anything but insignificant.
There may even be a measure of sympathy for the international sports bureaucracy -- the men and women running global sport's governing bodies.