The sources said at least 10 people were injured.
Last week they were focused on de-escalation, but now Israel is preparing for a possible deterioration of the situation, he said.
Eight Palestinian militants were killed in more than 25 Israeli airstrikes and 39 rocket attacks across Gaza on Sunday night into Monday, said Ashraf Al-Qidra, a spokesman for the Health Ministry in Gaza.
After that statement, 70 rockets were fired from Gaza into Israel, with Hamas claiming responsibility.
Israeli police have questioned six suspects about what they did "before and during the murder" of the Palestinian teen who was abducted and burned to death, Israeli police spokesman Micky Rosenfeld said.
Naftali Schwartzburger, the lawyer of one of the six suspects, said on CNN affiliate Israeli Channel 2 on Monday that Israeli police conducted re-enactments of the killing of  Mohammed Abu Khedair.
Netanyahu on Monday spoke with the father of the Palestinian teenager who was burned alive in Jerusalem last week, expressing shock at what he called an "abhorrent" murder.
We've done exactly that," said Mark Regev, spokesman for Netanyahu.
"I was up until 5 a.m. this morning and tried to go to sleep around then," Hussein Abu Khedair said.
Israeli police also announced Sunday a confession in the killing of a Jewish Israeli teen a month ago.
Meanwhile, the Abu Khedair family is irate over the treatment by Israeli police of one of the burning victim's cousins, an American high school student.
Senior officials in the Obama administration said they were shocked at two videos in which Khdeir was seen being held down and pummeled by men in the uniform of Israeli security forces, the officials said.
The officials said they expect Tariq will be able to return home to Florida with his family in the next few weeks.
They were masked.
"They are investigating whether he was throwing rocks," another senior State Department official said.
It's not the police investigating themselves.
The Israeli military destroyed the homes of the two main suspects in the killings of the three Israeli teenagers.
Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas has called on the United Nations to set up an international investigation into recent crimes against Palestinian people, including the killing of Abu Khedair, the Palestinian state news agency WAFA reported.