Rights groups accuse security forces and militia gangs of torturing civilians as world leaders warn that the nation is on the verge of a genocide.
The tiny, landlocked nation in central Africa is home to about 5 million people.
The riches from the minerals don't trickle down to the population, fueling resentment.
A coalition of rebels named Seleka ousted President Francois Bozize in March, the latest in a series of coups since the nation gained independence.
Months before his ouster, both sides had brokered a deal to form a unity government led by the president.
What happened after the president left?
Aid agencies warned of a humanitarian crisis as fear of the rebels prevented critically injured patients from going to health facilities.
After the president fled, Seleka named its commander, Michel Djotodia, as the new leader.
No.
Rebel groups ran amok for years, especially in rural areas.
OK, the President left and the rebels got their wish.
Rebels capitalized on the army's weakness and went on a rampage, human rights groups say.
The country descended into anarchy and the United Nations warned that "the seeds of a genocide are being sown."
Rights groups say Seleka is a predominantly Muslim coalition.
In addition, the conflict has exposed years of marginalization and discrimination against the northern, predominantly Muslim population, the United Nations says.
The Central African Republic is surrounded by countries struggling to emerge from years of conflict.
The United States sent special forces to the region last year to help hunt down Kony, the brutal leader of the Lord Resistance Army.
The chaos not only risk destabilizing the region, they could complicate the Kony mission.
The current president has tried to distance himself by disbanding Seleka, Human Rights Watch says.
"They want to create a religious war by all means possible," he says.
An African Union force is already in the nation.
The United Nations has suggested its peacekeeping force should eventually replace the African-led mission known, as MISCA.