(CNN) -- 2013 will be a year of harsh change for the tech industry.
CEO Steve Ballmer also repositioned Microsoft as a "devices and services" company, and he introduced the Surface and Surface Pro, two tablets designed by Microsoft itself to compete with traditional PC companies such as Dell and Sony.
The PC era is over, and Microsoft has to show consumers it has something to offer in a world dominated by tablets and smartphones.
Apple CEO Tim Cook has now launched two iPhones since taking over for Steve Jobs, and both of them have come with buggy, incomplete flagship software features -- the iPhone 4S launched with the charming-but-not-so-useful Siri voice assistant, and the iPhone 5 launched with a homegrown Maps app so buggy that Cook was forced to apologize to customers.
In the meantime, archrival Google has begun shipping some of the best iPhone apps around -- I've replaced most of Apple's apps on my iPhone homescreen with Google-built replacements such as Gmail, Google Maps, Chrome and YouTube.
Will Amazon go head to head with Apple and Google?
There's no way Amazon wants people searching Google to find content and products from multiple sources.
But the Kindle Fire products aren't good enough to compete with the iPad yet, and Amazon doesn't have all the services it needs to compete with Google either.
2013 will be Facebook's first year as a public company, and it has to prove that it can be a stable, reliable investment.
That's no easy task: Facebook figured out how to make money selling ads on its website just as most of its users switched to smartphone and tablet apps.
Can Google take Android back from Samsung and the wireless carriers?
Apple obviously writes its own software for the iPhone, but Samsung's phones all run a customized version of Google's open-source Android, and Samsung is so dominant that it could very well split off and start building its own version of Android, just as Amazon did with the Kindle Fire.
The animosity between Google and the carriers has gotten so deep that Google's new Nexus 4 flagship device doesn't have an LTE radio; the carriers simply wouldn't cooperate.
There's a happy balance between the two extremes, and Google needs to find it before Android begins to slip away entirely.
The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Nilay Patel.