The announcement was all the more striking, because earlier this month Turkey's President equated the Kurdish militants defending Kobani to the ISIS fighters who were laying siege to the town.
The scenes of Kurdish and ISIS fighters locked in a death struggle on the border, as well as the images of more than 100,000 desperate Syrian Kurds fleeing to Turkish territory, triggered spasms of deadly violence between rival factions within Turkey.
Kurdish politicians in Turkey accused the Turkish government of siding with ISIS by refusing to arm Kobani's defenders.
Agirnasli, a member of Turkey's Marxist-Leninist Communist Party, was reported killed this month in Kobani after he volunteered to join Kurdish militants defending the city.
Agirnasli's death shocked some Turks, who have felt Turkey's largest city was somehow insulated from the turmoil in the Middle East.
One of Agirnasli's professors said he understood why his former student volunteered to fight alongside the Kurds, even though Agirnasli wasn't a Kurd.
Historically, the Turkish government has persecuted and marginalized this community, referring to them for years as "mountain Turks."
The PKK initially fought to carve an independent Kurdistan out of Kurdish-populated regions of Turkey, Iraq, Syria and Iran.
"This peace process is one of the only good things happening in the Middle East today," Pope said.
Complicating matters further is that ISIS has found some support within Turkey's majority Muslim society.
Another unnamed Turkish militant explained in a video why he left his three children behind in Istanbul to join ISIS in Syria.
ISIS supporters have emerged on at least one Istanbul university campus.
The International Crisis Group's Pope said that when it comes to ISIS "there's a conflicted feeling in Turkey.
"We saw one man killed," Zor said, referring to the multiple beheadings and executions ISIS militants filmed on camera and distributed over social media.
Pope advises against Turkey being drawn further into the Syrian civil war.
"ISIS's barbaric beheadings and summary executions, horrible and disgusting as they are, should not shadow the war crimes and crimes against humanity perpetrated by Mr. Assad," Kalin wrote.