"Dungeons & Dragons," commonly known simply as D&D, burst onto the scene in 1974, long before the word "gaming" came with the implied word "video" in front of it.
"In today's culture, D&D has found its place as a leader and influencer over storytellers across so many different mediums," said Nathan Stewart, brand director for D&D at Wizards of the Coast, the company publishing the game.
Jerry Holkins, co-founder for the webcomic, "Penny Arcade," said he started playing D&D with his young aunts and uncles, much to the chagrin of his mother.
"My mom flipped out, of course.
Video game creator Ken Levine didn't have friends to play D&D with when he discovered the game in 1978.
"So I went from having no friends and no social circle to an immediate social circle through 'Dungeons & Dragons,' " said Levine, who is best known as creator of the "Bioshock" series.
By 1981, the game had more than 3 million players worldwide.
"Often times when people think of D&D, they think of the dice, maps and groups of friends sitting around the kitchen table," Stewart said.
"D&D was about creativity -- both in terms of the player experience and the Dungeon Master experience," Levine said.
In 1988, the first officially-licensed video game based on D&D was released by Strategic Simulations, Inc. "Pool of Radiance" was an adaptation of the Advanced Dungeons & Dragons rule set, and was generally well received by fans and critics.
"Dungeons & Dragons" sessions are social, Levine said.
"Different groups are all playing the same game, theoretically, but in practice there's a lot of culture that isn't really portable from table to table and people approach it with their own style," he said.
At root, the game is about a group of people who are all agreeing to imagine the same thing.
"I think those experiences have given the D&D game its longevity because they are timeless."
In addition to new rules, the creative team at Wizards of the Coast announced an original storyline that will extend beyond the tabletop and into digital gaming.
A new module for the D&D online game, "Neverwinter," will launch on August 14 and be "the premier digital 'Dungeons & Dragons' experience for players," according to a press release.
Players will have a shared story, but what actually happens during a tabletop game will be different than in the digital games.
"I'm going to have 'Theater of the Mind' elements, but I'm also going to have very strong visuals and there will be miniatures because I'm going to try to demonstrate without actually calling attention to it that you can present and play the D&D game in any one of a number of different ways and it is still Dungeons & Dragons."
Stewart and Perkins believe the future of stories in games will be best told through a transmedia experience and they hope players will usher in a familiar future for D&D.
It wants to be a place where the player has the ability to be more expressive."