(CNN) -- The Gettysburg Address was a quick-hitting speech that was built to last.
It has been 150 years since President Abraham Lincoln got up in front of thousands of people in Gettysburg, Pennsylvania, to dedicate the Soldiers' National Cemetery at a turning point in the Civil War.
Baron said the last president with an "oratorial" style -- on the whole -- was probably John F. Kennedy, who was assassinated 100 years and three days after the delivery of the Gettysburg Address.
Lincoln was able to get straight to the point and deliver a punchy speech in part because he came after Edward Everett's marathon presentation about the war, explains James Cornelius, curator of the Lincoln Collection in the Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library and Museum.
In some cities, people could buy commemorative event pamphlets that contained the speech, and key phrases were incorporated into Lincoln's 1864 election posters and memorials after his death.
Lincoln just said in two minutes what Everett tried to say in two hours.
People also share the quotations on social media.
We found that people in some states, like Delaware, were particularly fond of quoting the address and that different parts of the speech were more popular in some states than others.
Here, a span of 20 years.
Cornelius said Lincoln used such phrasing as a subtle reminder that the nation was only a youthful 87 years old.
"In his call for democracy and equality, (Lincoln) doesn't mention slavery, but everyone knew that was what he was talking about," Cornelius said.
Little doubt exists that Lincoln opposed slavery, and in fact loathed it, Cornelius said.
But Lincoln can't take full credit for this phrase, Cornelius said, because it was a fairly common expression used in the parlance of war.
Why should any other people die?
You should continue on and further this effort."
There are five versions of the speech, and one of them omits those two words.
Cornelius said historians trace this part back to Daniel Webster, a senator and U.S. secretary of state before the Civil War.
Even Lincoln himself is said to have used a version of the phrase in a letter 20 years before the address, Cornelius said.
Cornelius said one can see the endurance of Lincoln's speaking legacy by taking a stroll into the Lincoln library's gift shop, where you can pick up your very own T-shirt with a Lincoln quotation on it.
Maybe that's why people can't help but post the speech on social media, 150 years after the fact.