An Egypt-backed cease-fire between Israel and Hamas fell apart Tuesday as rocket attacks from Gaza were again answered by Israeli airstrikes.
"But Hamas said no to everyone.
Hamas said no to the cease-fire, both in word and in deed," Regev said.
Israeli leaders had agreed to the cease-fire, but from the outset warned it would be short-lived if the attacks from Gaza didn't stop.
"Hamas have decided to continue, and will pay the price for that decision," Netanyahu said Tuesday.
The Egyptian plan calls for all sides to cease hostilities in Gaza.
Its military wing rejected any possibility of a cease-fire, while its political wing had said it was considering it.
These, he said, are elements the Palestinians would like to see in a comprehensive cease-fire agreement.
We are still talking to other sides," he told CNN.
By Tuesday, the death toll from a week of Israeli airstrikes on Gaza had reached 194, with at least 1,400 wounded, according to Palestinian health authorities.
The toll is now greater than the number of people killed in Gaza during the 2012 conflict between Israel and Hamas.
The Israeli military says it uses a variety of methods, including phone calls and leaflets, to warn civilians of impending strikes.
Hamas on Tuesday closed a crossing between Gaza and Israel but allowed 25 Palestinians -- some of them needing medical attention -- to cross into Israel at Erez.
The border crossing at Erez was closed not as punitive measure, but because the Gazan side has been targeted in airstrikes, said Maher Abu Subha, the head of the committee for border crossings in Gaza.
"The Egyptian proposal for a cease-fire and negotiations provides an opportunity to end the violence and restore calm," Kerry said from Vienna, Austria.
Kerry strongly condemned the rocket launches by Hamas in the face of the cease-fire plan, and said he is prepared to fly to the Middle East as early as Wednesday, if needed.
He reiterated that the United States is prepared to help bring about a cease-fire, a senior State Department official said.
"It's important that the United States demand a cease-fire," he said.