Kathmandu, Nepal (CNN)More than 4,600 people dead.
As the country coped with the fallout of the quake, another natural disaster struck Tuesday afternoon in a popular trekking area north of Kathmandu, and up to 200 people were feared missing as a result of a landslide, a trekking association official said.
In Kathmandu, a capital city of shattered temples and toppled houses, some people paid their last respects to loved ones taken by the quake.
Alongside their father, two teenage brothers from the Gurung family, Ishan and Iman, said goodbye to their mother, Ishara.
This much pain," said Ishan, the elder of the two.
Kisnor Raj Giri, a 22-year-old man from Kathmandu who lost members of his extended family in the quake, said he was too scared to return home.
The death toll has now climbed above 4,600 in Nepal, officials said Tuesday evening, as rescue and relief efforts continue.
"This is not the time to rest and lament," he said.
...
"Children were not trapped in big schools somewhere and lot of people were outside because it was daytime," he said.
Most of the casualty numbers in Nepal are believed to have come mainly from Kathmandu and the surrounding area.
The government's first priority is to continue search and rescue operations and relief efforts, he said, as he thanked all those involved.
More than 15 countries and agencies have already promised help, Koirala said, as he appealed for other nations also to come to Nepal's aid.
Nepali Home Ministry Joint Secretary Sagar Mani Parajuli, who is coordinating relief efforts, said government efforts to get aid to remote areas had been hampered by rugged terrain and poor weather, which limits the use of helicopters.
Of the 8 million people affected by the quake across 39 districts of Nepal, some 1.4 million need food aid, McGoldrick added.
"The United Nations is supporting international operations for search and rescue and strengthening relief efforts," he said.
Darvas of World Vision said he had been told of frightening levels of damage in villages in the region surrounding Gorkha district, which is near the earthquake's epicenter.
He said injured people who had been airlifted from some remote areas were often suffering from crush injuries, lacerations and dislocations.
UNICEF, the U.N. children's agency, said Sunday that nearly 1 million Nepalese children urgently need assistance.
Damage to climbing infrastructure on the mountain, not to mention the overall situation in Nepal, means the climbing season is over for the year, climber Jim Davidson told CNN from the Everest base camp, where he was evacuated after spending two days on the mountain.
Are you in Nepal or do you have loved ones affected?