(CNN)By now, you probably have a position regarding the controversy over Indiana's religious freedom law.
As the author of the 1993 federal Religious Freedom Restoration Act (RFRA), Sen. Chuck Schumer is one who can offer clarity over the controversy surrounding Indiana's version of the law.
The federal law was intended to protect individual's religious freedom from government intervention, he said.
Also, the law was envisioned to protect the religious freedoms of individuals, while the Indiana law also protects private companies, Schumer said.
But other state laws mirror the federal law much more closely than the Indiana law does.
The photography studio lost the case because the court ruled that it could not use the religious freedom law because the dispute was between two private parties and not a government entity.
For sure, the case would have proceeded to trial, said Tim Holbrook, a law professor at Emory University.
Yes, the Indiana law makes it clear that individuals and private companies can use the religious freedom law as a defense, he said.
What's clear is that Indiana's law increases the potential pool of people who can defend themselves claiming religious freedom.
Much is being made of the fact that the first religious freedom law was signed by President Bill Clinton more than 20  years ago.
Today, it is being championed by Republicans.
There was outrage over the decision, and the law was created as a remedy.
But Holbrook says it is no coincidence that the religious freedom laws became popular at the state level just as the gay rights and marriage equality movement made historic steps.
Though not enshrined in the law, critics accuse the states pursuing the laws of using them to justify discrimination by the majority religion.
So we've established that the biggest difference between the federal law and the Indiana law is the scope: In Indiana, the law can be raised as a defense in private disputes, while the federal law applies only to government matters.
According to Blackman, the interpretations of the federal religious freedom law are not uniform.
Hobby Lobby, citing the federal religious freedom law, argued that it should not have to provide contraception coverage through insurance to its employees via Obamacare because it was against the owners' beliefs.
The outrage over the Indiana law is that it can be used to deny services to the LGBT community on the ground of religious beliefs.
In that sense, the religious freedom law is not necessary for those who want to discriminate against gays and lesbians.
If New Mexico had the same religious freedom law as Indiana, the case would have gone to trial.
For this reason, Holbrook suggests that a "fix" for the Indiana law would be the passage of a nondiscrimination law.
Or, at the very least, an exception written into the religious freedom bill that protects from such discrimination.