The United Courts Council operates without the authority or recognition of any central government.
This self-appointed council of judges, lawyers and clerics started working four months ago.
Gayed is a former appeals court judge who defected from the Syrian government and now serves as the general prosecutor for the United Courts Council.
The Free Syrian Army is the main rebel force fighting the government of President Bashar al-Assad.
In the "military prison," a court founded by rebels has incarcerated rebels accused of committing war crimes.
Some of the inmates said they were there on charges of robbery and theft.
Another jailed rebel, who asked not to be named, said, "I am a member of the Free Syrian Army and the captain of a battalion.
And now I'm waiting for the law to take its course ... in this failure of a court."
Yet at first glance, inmates there appeared to be treated better than at another makeshift rebel jail CNN visited in northern Syria last August.
At the United Courts Council jail in Aleppo, the prison warden led visitors to another cell, where men sat with their backs to the walls under heavy blankets.
"This section is for shabiha, informants, collaborators, spies and homosexuals," said the warden, who asked to be named only Abu Abdo.
"Our work now will prepare us for the day when the regime falls, because then there will be anarchy," Banna said.
"May God give victory to Bashar al-Assad," she said with a smile.
Another 23-year-old woman who asked not to be named said she had been arrested 16 days previously for being a shabiha.
One might assume the United Courts Council had been formed to create a rival judicial structure to the Syrian government, which is believed to control a quarter to a third of Aleppo.
"He was asking me to hand over a prisoner to his court system.
I said no."
"Nusra has a sectarian agenda ... (it) is anti-democratic and will seek to impose its very strict interpretation of Islam on Syria," Ford said.
...
Gayed argued his council's experiment in rebel justice is a more tolerant alternative to the Islamic courts that Nusra Front has reportedly been establishing in Aleppo and in other rebel controlled towns.