Chris Christie as the Republican presidential candidate for 2016, Jeb Bush has been hinting that he might jump into the fray.
The most important asset Jeb Bush offers is that he is a known commodity, someone who is greatly respected in Republican circles.
Republicans know that the electoral math will be extremely difficult for them in 2016 as more voters, particularly among Democrats, are likely to come to the polls and the electoral college map favors blue.
Bush can survive the pressure from the right in the primaries.
He has a rather conservative record on tax cuts and gun rights, one that would be quite appealing to the right.
Bush will be able to make a strong case in the primaries that he is as conservative as anyone else in the bunch.
Massachusetts Gov.
During the recent midterm primaries, the Republican establishment showed that money matters.
Bush is likely to draw considerable support from key players in the Republican fund-raising machine.
"He's a uniter.
While his conservative record will be sufficient to counteract Tea Party frustration, Bush will be able to sell himself as part of a Republican cohort that is seeking to bring new people into the Republican fold and who is sensitive to the ways in which social and cultural issues have changed where the party stands on these issues.
Like most Republicans, he will face Democrats pointing to the evidence of economic recovery under President Obama, and he has close tied to the business, anti-tax establishment faction of the GOP that hurt Mitt Romney in 2012.
The biggest obstacle that Jeb Bush faces is his last name.
The success of the Tea Party at shifting the GOP further to the right allows Bush's supporters to claim that the previous Republican president was not as extreme as his critics said.
If he puts his full heart into this race, and it still remains unclear thus far that he will, Hillary Clinton and other Republican contenders should be worried that the 2016 election could be another year for the Bush family.