People in more than 170 communities -- from Anchorage to Allakaket -- are planning to hold public "Choose Respect" rallies in honor of survivors of sexual and intimate partner violence.
"We have extremely high rates of domestic violence and sexual violence in Alaska," said Katie TePas, a senior policy adviser to the governor.
After spending more than two weeks in Alaska, I published a series of stories about why the rates of sexual violence are so shockingly high there -- and what could be done to change that.
They're not alone, and these "Choose Respect" rallies are just the sort of awareness-raising events that could push Alaska off the bottom of the list.
I hope CNN readers will join the state in demanding an end to the violence there and elsewhere.
In a February 24 letter, he called CNN's coverage of rape in Alaska "exceptional" and said it "pulled back the curtain and cast a new light on the issue" of sexual violence.
As for his kind words about the series, CNN shares the credit with the brave people in Alaska who told me their stories -- and with the dozens of readers and viewers who shared their stories of survival in solidarity with Alaskans.
They will be with the people of Nunam Iqua, Alaska, which is one of a reported 75 communities that do not have any local law enforcement presence.
A CNN reader started a petition asking the state government to change that.
The state troopers have told me they're having difficulty finding someone who would take the job in Nunam Iqua.
My thoughts will be with the young people who helped organize a panel discussion in Anchorage called "NO MORE" -- part of a national awareness-raising campaign.
And, finally, my thoughts will be with Erin Merryn, a victim of child sexual assault from Illinois who, I'm told by a local lawmaker, will be traveling Alaska this week campaigning for a bill that would require state school districts to teach about the warning signs of child sexual abuse.
"There's too much coverage (for legislators to ignore sexual violence).
The stats are horrifying, as are many of the stories I heard.
Alaska is also a beautiful place full of strong people.
And this week, all of us will get a chance to see them -- and, hopefully, you -- demanding a safer future.