Bassett was then chairman of the Texas Forensic Science Commission, an agency set up in 2005 to regulate state crime labs after a series of embarrassing scandals.
Aides to Perry, who allowed Willingham's execution to go forward, started off with general questions about how things were going at the commission, a relatively new agency, Bassett said.
The governor's new pick for chairman soon put the brakes on the investigation, raising some of the same questions about the commission's authority that Bassett said Perry's aides had.
Perry's campaign dismissed Bassett's accusations Wednesday, repeating the governor's characterization of Willingham as a "monster" who had sent his three young daughters to a fiery death.
"The case has been scrutinized and reviewed by a jury, state and federal courts, the news media, anti-death penalty activists and the Forensic Science Commission," Perry spokesman Mark Miner told CNN in an e-mail.
He said Perry's office called him just days before the commission was slated to hear from the expert it hired to review the evidence in the Willingham case.
Representatives of the attorney general's office raised no concerns about the Forensic Science Commission's jurisdiction when the panel voted unanimously to take on the Willingham investigation, he said.
The state fire marshal's office has told the Forensic Science Commission it stands by the findings in his case.
In Willingham's case, Perry's office says the governor was briefed on a last-minute filing by Austin-based fire science expert Gerald Hurst that found the deadly blaze was likely not arson, but he refused to grant a stay of execution for further investigation.
Nashed told CNN that Hurst's review of investigators' findings in the Willingham fire was also reviewed by appeals courts and the state Board of Pardons and Paroles, which rebuffed a plea for clemency.
The most recent review was conducted by Maryland arson expert Craig Beyler at the request of the Forensic Science Commission.
Stephen Saloom, the group's policy director, told CNN that the investigation should go forward for the sake of hundreds of other prisoners now serving time for arson, some of whom also may have been convicted based on outdated fire science.
"The Willingham case really demonstrates how severe the consequences can be when you use bad forensic evidence," Saloom said.