Fifty years ago, they lined the street just down from his small Singapore clinic.
Many would not come to the clinic.
"We're not going for certain types of people," said Memory Project director Gene Tan.
It's the messiness of it, of the lives people lived and the communities they lived in, that we want to have."
"Everything is gone," Anom said.
But in Singapore, that was another eon.
As a volunteer for the Singapore Memory Project, Yaacor and two other students are interviewing seniors along a just a few streets for a small book of interviews titled "Streets We Remember."
Yaacor said he is learning more than he ever did in school about Singapore's history from people like Anom.
But he said it's actually more like a patchwork quilt, something that he and his fellow students hope to capture for the Memory Project.
"Dark billowing smoke filled the sky, the smell was toxic," Seah recalled in his Singapore Memory Project blog post.
The Bukit Ho Swee fire left four dead and thousands homeless and is one of those moments in Singapore's history where most people alive at the time remember where they were when they learned about the massive blaze.
Ruth Ann Keh, 17, and two of her fellow students compiled the memories of people living in the Rochor Centre complex that is slated to be torn down in 2016 to make way for a new expressway.
"What struck me the most was the sense of family," Keh said.
It's not as it was before.
"Inside, my father, uncle and one hired worker would sit on small stools or on the floor, hard at work six days weekly making chilli, tomato and soya sauces, bottling them and tying the bottles expertly with thin rope-like twine in packs of six or 12," Ng wrote in her Singapore Memory Project post.
"There's a lot of longing in all the memories -- longing and attachment to people who are gone, places that are gone," he said.
But they've realized that documenting Singapore's history is about them, too.
Singapore is a young country that has packed more history into its few years than most others.
"History is not just for the leaders.