Donetsk, Ukraine (CNN) -- Pro-Russia separatists in eastern Ukraine have decided to go ahead with a Sunday referendum on greater local powers, they said Thursday, defying a call by Russian President Vladimir Putin to postpone the vote.
The move escalated the turmoil rocking the country.
An international pact reached among Russia, Ukraine and its Western allies in Geneva, Switzerland, last month that called for the rebels to disarm and vacate buildings seized in the volatile region has not yet materialized.
Putin also said that direct talks between Kiev authorities and representatives of the pro-Russian sympathizers in southeast Ukraine were key to settling the crisis.
The Kyiv Post said he was captured by representatives of the Donetsk People's Republic.
A majority of Ukrainians agree their country should remain a unified state, according to a poll released Thursday.
Three times as many Ukrainians say Russia is having a bad influence on their country as say it is having a good impact (67% vs. 22%)," it said.
Moscow has repeatedly said they are only carrying out exercises.
He reiterated Putin's comments that Russia had pulled back from the border and said Moscow's defense minister had informed U.S. Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel about this in a phone conversation.
It also said Thursday that U.S. citizens should defer all travel to Crimea and eastern regions
Kiev and many experts in the West believe the separatists are backed by Moscow and fear that Putin is fomenting trouble to increase his influence in the region.
In an interview with Al Jazeera, Ukrainian Foreign Minister Andrii Deshchytsia accused Russian troops -- which he says comprise special forces and intelligence -- of infiltrating and destabilizing the east of the country.
"We may have differences with Vladimir Putin at the moment namely over the crisis in Ukraine but I have not forgotten and never will forget that the Russian people gave millions of lives (during World War II)," Hollande told local television in a clip posted on the presidential palace website.
Kiev has said it is stepping up security measures ahead of the holiday.
CNN's Nick Paton Walsh, Matthew Chance, Elaine Ly and Laura Smith-Spark contributed to this report, as did journalist Azad Safarov.