The CIA believes the interrogations of three men: Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, Ammar al-Baluchi, and Hassan Ghul provided key information that led to bin Laden.
But they are also trying to walk a fine line, by sticking to claims that valuable intelligence on al Qaeda and in the hunt for Osama bin Laden emerged from the harsh interrogations of detainees.
"I'll tell you this," Bush said after clarifying that he hadn't read the Senate report yet.
These are good people.
Officials briefed on the report say it will provide ugly new details on the CIA program, including specifics on detainee deaths and a portrayal of a haphazardly assembled and poorly managed program.
CIA employees, referred to by pseudonyms in the report, won't be identified; the CIA pushed for the pseudonyms to be redacted because other information in the report could be used to determine who they are.
"There's going to be nothing lost in this narrative," the official added.
Conspicuously absent from the Senate report is any examination of the role of high-level officials in the Bush White House who authorized the CIA program and who urged that more aggressive tactics be used.
A Senate aide said the purpose of the report wasn't to point fingers at the Bush administration, but to examine the program itself.
"The interrogations and the conditions of confinement at the CIA detention sites were far different and far more harsh than the way the CIA had described them to us," Feinstein said on the Senate floor in March.
"A lot is going on in the world, and he wanted to make sure that foreign policy implications were being appropriately factored into timing,"  Psaki said.
"We have to get this report out," Feinstein told the Los Angeles Times in an interview Sunday.
John Rizzo, who was the CIA's acting general counsel during the period, is convinced the program helped find bin Laden and that it protected the nation.
Also in dispute -- and some say unknowable -- is whether other methods could have produced the same or better information than what the CIA program produced.
For some Republicans and CIA supporters, there's still a dispute about whether techniques like waterboarding, used on three detainees, constitutes torture.
I understand why it happened.