(CNN) -- Ten years after "The Nanny Diaries" became a bestseller, authors Emma McLaughlin and Nicola Kraus have released back-to-back new books.
It's been a busy decade for McLaughlin and Kraus, both 38.
The new mothers talked to CNN over the phone about their transition from writers, to working moms, who are also adapting to a shift in the literary landscape.
We have a hard clock-out because we have to be at pickup.
And sometimes we get back to work after our kids go to bed, but we're usually really brain-fried by then, in a way that we didn't used to be.
It's butt in the chair, when you get the kids settled, and you just go.
Because I think you can't appreciate how tired you are, or how much willpower you have to harness on some days to focus, until you've done it.
I think it's impossible if you haven't had kids yet to really get that.
McLaughlin: Becoming a parent is such an extreme change in your life.
It's just really comforting.
Specifically, we talked a lot about "The Nanny Diaries" in the last couple of years because when we were nannies, we couldn't really understand why so much derision and scorn was thrown the way of not just us, but our colleagues.
And we love that our kids love these women.
And I am so grateful that I have a career that I am deeply committed to and that brings me so much joy.
Even the tough days are good days.
McLaughlin: I agree to all of that and I think, additionally, it was interesting for me to discover the moments I've had of: 'I should just be doing this; I should just be parenting' have not come ever from not wanting to be working or a lack of passion to be working.
Kraus: It was so cute.
Did you approach them?
Kraus: This was Emma's brainchild.
I think we've been doing a lot of thinking about how we can continue to be out there when we've lost so much marketing via foot traffic of brick and mortar stores, and the consolidation of retailers.
McLaughlin and Kraus are signing copies of "Over You" at Estée Lauder counters in various Nordstrom stores through December 1.