Brisbane, Australia (CNN) -- Emergency services and Australian military personnel stepped up the search Friday for dozens of people still missing in Queensland as authorities and residents tried to assess the damage caused by the state's worst flooding in decades.
The search was concentrated to the west of Brisbane, near Toowoomba, which was all but submerged when a wall of water tore through the town on Monday.
Residents in Brisbane were being urged not to enter floodwater because of the risk of illness after sewage plants along the river were inundated.
The Brisbane River, which slices through the city, peaked Thursday at 4.6 meters (more than 15 feet), about a meter below predictions and below the level set by the last major flood in 1974.
Bligh said 11,900 homes in Brisbane were fully flooded and 14,700 were partially flooded.
Queensland police have arrested 10 people on 18 charges of looting, Atkinson said.
Some 600 members of the Australian Defence Force were helping and more were expected, said Bligh.
Soon after Christmas, water from torrential rains swamped the northern city of Rockhampton, 600 kilometers (370 miles) north of Brisbane, triggering a massive recovery operation to rebuild the town.
"I've got a couple of thousand dollars worth of surfboards under the house and we'd left the garage door open to avoid structural damage to the house and I wanted to get them before they floated out to sea," he said after paddling back to higher ground in his street, which was smeared with mud and littered with flood-damaged furniture.
By late Thursday, the brown, murky water had risen more than half a meter above the second floor.
They were among more than 1,000 people who slept Wednesday night on inflatable mattresses at the center.
"We've been coming back and forward just to check" on the hostel, Jackson said.
Elsewhere in the city, floodwater rose to rooftops, submerging houses and creating a logistical and financial headache for homeowners waiting for the water to drop so they could check the damage.