Scattered around the tables between the laptops were pamphlets and fliers for candidates of the Freedom and Justice Party, the newly established political wing of the once banned but now free and unfettered Muslim Brotherhood.
The "help" at the polls was just the tip of an organizational iceberg that may well ensure the movement emerges victorious from the first, critical round in Egypt's first post-Mubarak parliamentary elections.
The Brotherhood is unbound.
The movement's Egyptian opponents frequently describe the Brotherhood as sheep in wolves' clothing.
The secrecy that alarms some Egyptians may have simply been a necessity to function in an environment where the secret police, the mukhabarat, and their army of informers were watching everyone.
In 2006, when a ferry sank between Saudi Arabia and the Red Sea port of Safaga carrying more than 1,000 workers from Upper Egypt, the Brotherhood rushed relief supplies, only to have them blocked by the government.
In a country where the sheer mass of people sometimes overwhelms creaking government services, the Brotherhood has won praise for its ability to create order out of chaos.
said Abdel Aziz Zaid, production manager at an industrial printing press in Cairo and Brotherhood member.
The Brotherhood is often accused of opportunism, but, if that's the case, it's chosen its opportunities wisely.
The group's leaders cheered the fall of Mubarak but never took credit for it.
Many Egyptians I spoke with outside the Square said they were tired of demonstrations and clashes, wanted the elections to proceed, and wanted the country to settle down.
The large turnout for the first two days of voting, and the dwindling numbers in Tahrir Square, suggest that the Brotherhood once more played its cards well.
"I'm going to vote for the Freedom and Justice Party!"
And that seems to be the attitude of many members and supporters of the Brotherhood -- that they'll bring people over not by compulsion but rather by conviction and example.
They use religion to convince people to vote for them."
She was waiting in line to vote "against the Muslim Brotherhood," she said.
A few years ago I interviewed Mahdi Akif, then the leader, or Supreme Guide, of the Muslim Brotherhood.
Akif, a doctor, had worked in Germany but had also spent many years behind bars under Gamal Abdel Nasser, Anwar Sadat and Hosni Mubarak.
Rifaat Said, the wizened old leader of the leftist, secular Agama's Party shared with me his concerns about the Brotherhood.
Said spent time in prison with the Brotherhood's Akif, and knows him well.