Also Wednesday, France recalled its ambassador to Syria, the French Foreign Ministry said.
Andrew Tabler, an expert on Syria at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy, said air intelligence has been deeply involved in the eight-month-long crackdown by the Syrian government against protesters, a grinding civil conflict that the United Nations says has left more than 3,500 people dead.
The regime should "take note" that the deserter force "is capable of striking them in any place and at any time we want," the group said.
"This branch is responsible for many of the crimes against Syrian people and political prisoners," al Odah said.
It was one of five actions reported by the opposition force, which has recently emerged as an important factor in the opposition movement as more and more soldiers have left the Syrian army.
Tabler said the Free Syrian Army consists of soldiers who've left their posts instead of obeying orders to fire on protesters.
Opposition groups like the Free Syrian Army have been calling on the international community to help protect protesters.
Col. Riad al-Assad, a 30-year veteran of the Syrian air force, claims to lead a force in Syrian cities of some 10,000 mainly low-ranking soldiers, a number impossible to verify.
The Syrian Arab News Agency, a state-run outlet, quoted a government source as saying that "Syria decided not to participate" in Rabat, where there was a ministerial meeting of the Arab League council and an Arab-Turkish cooperation meeting.
He said Syria hadn't fulfilled commitments to the league and the Turks to rein in the instability.
Time is working against the Syrian regime.
Mohammed al-Ikhsafi, Morocco's ambassador to Syria, told CNN a demonstration occurred in front of his country's embassy in Damascus on Wednesday.
The protesters threw tomatoes and rocks at the embassy and they brought down the Moroccan flag and raised the Syrian flag instead," al-Ikhsafi said.
Morocco's Foreign Ministry condemned the attacks on its embassy, the country's official news agency reported.
"The Syrian government will shoulder the responsibility on maintaining the security of its diplomatic mission and the respect and safety of its staff," said foreign affairs undersecretary Juma al-Junaibi.
For its part, the Syrian government freed 1,180 detainees Tuesday as part of the Arab League peace plan.
The number of civilians killed Wednesday was 20 -- 11 in Homs, 7 in Idlib, and 1 in each Daraa and Damascus suburbs -- said the Local Coordination Committee of Syria, a coalition of activists.