In any large American city, this house would be a suburban, upper-middle class home -- but here in the town of Antunez, located in a mainly rural area of the Mexican southwestern state of Michoacan, it seems much grander, certainly in stark contrast with the adobe houses next door.
"This is now our barracks," says a vigilante who spoke to us on condition of anonymity.
Our hosts are a group of local men who rose up in arms against the Knights Templar, a rather romantic name for a criminal organization known not only for drug trafficking, but also for terrorizing people in this part of Mexico through extortion, executions, rape and murder.
Rosales is a lieutenant under the leadership of Servando Gomez, also known as "La Tuta," the head of the Knights Templar cartel.
"Fortunately -- or unfortunately -- we are here.
On a decorative opening in the foyer of his lieutenant's former residence, standing next to a modern art statue, is a mini 14, an assault rifle that fires .223-caliber bullets like an AR15, left behind by Rosales when he fled.
On the wall, there's a rack for a large flat screen TV; but the vigilante groups have looted the house already and many pieces of furniture are missing, giving the residence the feeling of a house whose owners have just moved out.
This is not the only property the vigilantes have occupied that used to belong to the cartel lieutenant.
The property also features a shed with white pillars and red tile roof covering a living area with grills and chairs leading to the lawn connecting to the two-level circular pool divided in the middle.
A vigilante in the nearby town of La Huerta, who covers his face with a ski mask and identifies himself as "Juan," says they say they had no option but to rise up in arms to protect their people and lands.
After that we're just going to put them down again."
Hipolito Mora, the leader of yet another vigilante group in the town of Felipe Carrillo Puerto, says they have kept the movement against organized crime with the same resources the Knights Templar used to attack them in the past.
"We did it at first and we continue to do so."
The vigilantes are also returning property they say the Knights Templar stole from local people including ranches, lime orchards, wells, farming machinery and vehicles.
The drug cartels were just sucking the money out of everybody and it was just going too far."