(CNN)Last week, UCLA Medical Center notified 179 patients that it had potentially exposed them to a fearsome "superbug," and urged them to get tested.
The FDA first alerted doctors using the scopes back in 2009 that they could be transmitting bacteria, even after proper cleaning, Reuters reported.
UCLA is only the the most recent of several American medical centers, including hospitals in Seattle and Chicago, where CRE has hitched a ride on the duodenoscope, designed to treat blockages and other conditions of secretory ducts leading into the first segment of the intestines, called the duodenum.
The Seattle outbreak occurred from 2012 to 2014, but FDA's warning to medical providers and hospitals last week, in the wake of the UCLA infections, revealed that the agency didn't know what should be done to prevent the infections beyond "meticulously cleaning" prior to the standard disinfection procedure.
Why?
Virginia Mason Medical Center in Seattle, which suffered 11 patient deaths after contaminated duodenoscopes introduced bacteria into its patients, hasn't seen any further cases since implementing its surveillance culture protocol, which has cost the hospital $1 million in additional scopes, USA Today reported.
Hospitals are generating their protocols without clear guidance from the FDA, which oddly chose the venue of the LA Times interview Monday to cast doubt on UCLA's new approach of using ethylene oxide gas to kill off any CRE still on used scopes.
What's more, hospitals and clinics generate a tsunami of medical records that contain information about how various medical devices are working on a daily basis, but researchers and the FDA have inordinate trouble making much of it useful, because the precise devices aren't clearly identified.
Taxpayers need our government to levy smart fees that are directed to fund the functions of key agencies like the FDA and the CDC, which we rely on to make sure medical devices are as safe as possible when they're introduced and to keep track of any problems on a continuous basis.
This is crucial to stop the community spread of CRE; in North Carolina, where three patients contracted CRE inside one hospital, 15 people actually brought CRE with them into the hospital rather than getting it there.