The phone of the first officer of Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 was on and made contact with a cell tower in Malaysia about the time the plane disappeared from radar, a U.S. official told CNN on Monday.
Asked Sunday by CNN about the newspaper report about a purported effort to make a call by the first officer, Malaysia's acting transport minister Hishammuddin Hussein said, "As far as I know, no, but as I said that would be in the realm of the police and the other international (authorities) and when the time comes that will be revealed.
"It's never supposed to be on at all.
When the plane first went missing, authorities said millions of cell phone records were searched, looking for evidence that calls had been made from the plane after it took off, but the search turned up nothing.
Officials said a built-in safety feature recalled the underwater search vehicle after it exceeded its operating depth of 4,500 meters (14,763 feet).
"We haven't had a single detection in six days," Australian chief search coordinator Angus Houston said.
"It may not," he said.
But he said the area probably has a lot of silt, which can "complicate" the search.
Australian officials announced the Australian ship Ocean Shield had detected an oil slick Sunday evening.
"I stress the source of the oil has yet to be determined, but the oil slick is approximately 5,500 meters (3.4 miles) downwind ... from the vicinity of the detections of the TPL on Ocean Shield," Houston said.
It could be (from) hydraulics."
The surface search was among the last, Houston said.
"The air and surface search for floating material will be completed in the next two to three days in the area where the aircraft most likely entered the water," Houston said.
The time is ripe to move on to other search techniques.
"Every good effort has been expended, but it's now looking like the batteries are failing, and it's time to start mowing the lawn, as we say, time to start scanning the sea floor," said Rob McCollum, a CNN analyst and ocean search specialist.
"I don't know where.