In Santa Fe, they burn Zozobra, or "Old Man Gloom," at the stake every fall.
Considering that New Mexico is essentially a bilingual state, where about one-third of families speak Spanish (some villagers in the northern mountains speak a dialect of 16th-century Spanish), New Mexico often feels like a foreign country.
Walk into any New Mexico restaurant, order an enchilada or burrito and the waitress will ask the inevitable: Red, green, or Christmas?
Whether you prefer spicy green, mellow red, or "Christmas," a combination of the two, the little-known secret about New Mexico chile is that red and green are one and the same.
Drive about 65 miles northwest of Santa Fe on U.S. 84, past Pedernal, the iconic flat-topped peak painted by Georgia O'Keeffe, and Ghost Ranch, where portions of "The Lone Ranger," "Wyatt Earp" and "No Country for Old Men" were filmed.
At the end of the 13-mile-long road is Monastery of Christ in the Desert's tap room, where you'll find the smooth, cool tang of a classic Belgian ale.
By 1884 New Mexico was producing almost a million gallons of wine annually.
Today, the state has more than 42 wineries that produce more than 700,000 gallons of wine annually.
Not likely to stop for a sip in New Mexico?
Cruise Albuquerque's Central Avenue today and the buildings might be described as faded retro.
Due to a change in the road's alignment in 1937, this is where historic Route 66 (Fourth Street) intersects with modern Route 66 (Central Avenue).
It's also eerily reminiscent of the Old West, especially the downtown plaza's Palace of the Governors, which was built in 1610, more than 300 years before New Mexico became a state.
It's still the Wild West.
More than a century later, New Mexicans are still allowed to openly carry a gun, no permit required, almost anywhere, including state parks and state and national forests, and restaurants that don't serve hard alcohol.
We may be getting hung up on a technicality, but the "sand" in these 275-square miles of shifting dunes 15 miles west of Alamogordo is actually gypsum crystals.
http://www.nps.gov/whsa/index.htm
Archaeologists have identified more than 25,000 Ancestral Pueblo sites in New Mexico.
But to this day their ancestors are scattered across New Mexico in 19 Pueblo communities.
Even without lightning, the high desert sky at sunrise and sunset here at 7,200 feet on the edge of the Gila National Forest near Quemado is breathtaking.
Make a reservation at least six months in advance to stay in the one rustic, three-bedroom cabin adjacent to the field through the Dia Art Foundation (diaart.org).
Southwest of Taos, Ojo officially became a "spa" 145 years ago, but it still has public Lithia, Iron, Soda, and Arsenic springs.