(CNN) -- Ten years ago, President Putin of Russia faced an embarrassing foreign policy defeat.
Putin was left spluttering.
Within a few years, self-destructive squabbling among Ukraine's new democratic leaders, as the economy stagnated, had discredited the "Orange Revolution."
As before, Putin makes clear his disdain for the demonstrators and his support for Yanukovych.
Is Putin-2014 the same person as Putin-2004?
By contrast, Russian troops in Crimea was the one thing certain to unite Kiev's factions, mobilize Ukraine's population and prompt rapid Western action on economic aid.
Even more perverse, invasion would throw away in one day two years' worth of reputational capital, accumulated from a string of unexpected foreign policy successes.
To those who have been raising the alarm about Putin's expansionist drive and wounded pride since before he came to office, there is nothing to explain: the dictator has shown his true colors.
What to make, then, of Putin-2000 who, when asked whether Russia might one day join NATO replied: "Why not?
Over the years, Putin acquiesced to U.S. bases in Central Asia after 9/11, shared intelligence with Washington, agreed to cut nuclear arsenals by two thirds, and defied his own Communist protesters to establish a route through Russia for U.S. military supplies to Afghanistan.
Comparable nationalist rallying points in the past such as Russia's 2008 invasion of Georgia produced a spike in Putin's ratings, but one that had completely reversed within a few months.
The costs of the Crimean intervention, in reduced investment and international isolation, will last longer than the immediate rally behind the flag.
Like all people but more so, they succumb to attribution bias -- believing the worst of others and the best of themselves -- and to the overconfidence effect -- the tendency to exaggerate the odds of success.
German Chancellor Angela Merkel, who spoke to Putin by phone last Sunday, said that he seemed to be "in another world."
Although his regime faces no immediate danger, and the first polls may well show initial support for his moves, Putin has made his task of holding onto power in the medium run more difficult.
Yet, the information filter around Putin will make it hard for him to evaluate what is going on.
The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Daniel Treisman.