ATLANTA, Georgia (CNN) -- I'll never forget holding World War II medic Tony Acevedo in my arms.
I held his hand and hugged him until he calmed.
Metz was one of the Nazi commanders who headed a slave labor camp known as Berga an der Elster, where 350 U.S. soldiers -- 80 of whom had been targeted for being Jewish -- were beaten, starved and forced to work in tunnels at a secret V-2 rocket factory.
More than 100 soldiers died at the camp or on a forced death march of more than 200 miles.
He shot one soldier, Morton Goldstein, through the head, execution-style, according to the survivors.
Acevedo described seeing Metz dump ice water on one emaciated soldier.
"You're going to kill him then," Acevedo responded.
Buddeski died April 13, 1945, on the death march on what the soldiers call Hell's Highway.
When CNN first reported Acevedo's story in November, I had no idea it would lead to what I witnessed this weekend: The U.S. Army reversing course on six decades of silence and recognizing the Berga soldiers for what they went through.
In explaining its decision on the Berga commanders, the War Department said, "Metz, though guilty of a generally cruel course of conduct toward prisoners, was not directly responsible for the death of any prisoners except one who was killed during the course of an attempt to escape."
The government excuses the killing of one soldier.
Berga soldiers will tell you they were never called to testify against Metz or Merz.
It nagged them.
Heading into last weekend, the six Berga survivors present knew a two-star general was being sent to meet with them.
Nah, he'll toe the company line.
See photos of the Berga men being honored »
I knew history had just been made, the legacy of the Berga soldiers preserved for all time.
I thought about Bernard "Jack" Vogel and Izzy Cohen, who were forced to stand without food and water for days, pushed to their deaths.
I had met with his 90-year-old wife, Florence, and their daughter, Nomi, months before.
When she was notified Izzy was a prisoner of war on March 16, 1945, one relative shouted, "That's just like Izzy to take the easy way out of war."
I thought about Martin Vogel, the brother of the man who died with Izzy.
"Are you the one who did the story on the medic, Tony Acevedo?"
They were best friends.
At the time his brother died such a horrific death, Martin Vogel was just a few hundred miles away.
I've listened to each one and put them in touch with Acevedo for answers about their loved ones.
I'm not the first to report on Berga.
You can scroll through Acevedo's diary and read the War Department document explaining why Metz and Merz were set free.
It was humbling when Boles, the two-star general, told me that my reporting and my colleagues on CNN television preserved the men's legacy, culminating with the Army recognizing them.
"Just as they never left their fallen comrades, we will never leave them," Boles said.
I wished the other Berga survivors were there, especially Acevedo.
My final message is to my generation and the next.
The greatest generation.
They're cut from a different cloth and we're losing them too fast.