(CNN) -- Microsoft's Bing search engine will not follow Google out of China.
With the loyalty of millions of Chinese Internet searchers up for grabs, Baidu, the home-grown search engine with dominant market share in China, is expected to be the biggest winner.
Will Microsoft manage its legal obligations to the Chinese government in a way that helps legitimize and prolong current censorship practices, or in a way that helps reduce censorship over time -- or at the very least increases transparency and accountability to Chinese citizens?
In January, the Chinese media gave prominent play to comments by Microsoft's founder Bill Gates and CEO Steve Ballmer.
"In every country in which we operate, including China, Microsoft requires proper legal authority before we remove any Internet content; and if we remove content, we give users notice."
As it happens, the way Microsoft handles censorship in China has changed since it launched a Chinese version of its search engine and rolled out a Chinese-language blog-hosting service in 2005.
In February 2006, executives from Cisco, Yahoo, Microsoft and Google were summoned to a congressional hearing in Washington.
Cisco was under fire for selling technology to China that helped authorities censor the Internet.
Then why, human rights activists and legal experts asked, were they responding to requests made by Chinese authorities using no pretense of legal process?
Bing seems to censor a bit less than the Chinese Baidu but a bit more than Google.cn did.
In 2008, Microsoft, along with Google and Yahoo, joined the Global Network Initiative (GNI, at globalnetworkinitiative.org), a group that has established a code of conduct for free expression and privacy.
Earlier this month, Chinese Minister of Industry and Information Technology Li Yizhong told the international press that foreign Internet companies must obey Chinese laws.
Will Bing comply only with those censorship requests that have a clear basis in Chinese law and which are made through a legally binding, documented and accountable process?