(CNN) -- Ah, London.
Meals you'll never forget (and that can be meant, now, in a good way.)
London has several international airports and all are serviced by public transportation into central London in around an hour and a half.
It works in London.
For quirky design and English eccentric styling, the Ham Yard Hotel in vibrant Soho is a good bet.
For London's most breathtaking views, you can't go wrong with the new Shangri-La at The Shard, in London's tallest building.
It's located in the London Bridge area, which gives easy access to The City and is a few steps away from Borough Market, the city's finest open-air food market.
Another London institution that gives international flavors the modern British treatment is Ottolenghi, owned by Jerusalemite chef Yotam Ottolenghi, who's known for his bestselling cookbooks.
Night owls who like views as fancy as the food should try Duck and Waffle, on the 40th floor of a skyscraper near London's hip East End.
All the big international brands are represented in London and there are plenty of high-end department stores, but the best-kept secret is the city's boutiques, which show off the wealth of homegrown fashion.
You can nail the style with a few pieces from Albam in Soho.
But you haven't shopped in London until you've been to Liberty.
For a stunning picture of yourself next to St. Paul's Cathedral, go to the Millennium Bridge, which runs between the cathedral and the Tate Modern art gallery.
One of the joys of London is its neighborhoods.
Leafy and grand, full of garden squares and Georgian terraces, this is where you'll find The British Museum and The University of London.
A few tube stops west of central London, this well-heeled area around Westbourne Grove and Ledbury Road is full of boutiques and cafes, while Portobello Road, lined with charming terraces of pastel-colored houses, has an excellent antiques market.
London's many art galleries all have shops attached and are a great source of presents and souvenirs that are tasteful and different.
Former CNN International producer Mairi Mackay is an award-winning Scottish journalist who splits her time between London, Tel Aviv and Jenin in the West Bank.