London (CNN) -- Brazil stands at a crossroads in its efforts to preserve the Amazon rainforest, as the government considers controversial legislation governing land use.
Brazil's environment ministry credits its success on a combination of support for sustainable activities and near real-time satellite monitoring of forest regions that allows it to target illegal operations with extra agents.
"The changes in the new Forest Code will reduce this protection.
Cattle ranching is often used to guarantee the ownership of the area by land grabbers," she said.
The power of the rural lobby is acknowledged by those close to the Brazilian government but the environmental fears are also rejected.
It is a sector of great importance for the country.
Carvalho said farmers must keep 80% of their forested land -- they will only be able to clear 20% -- and may have to use some of their land for reforestation.
Both the Rainforest Foundation and Greenpeace have previously urged Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff to use her veto to block the law change.
Spring 2012 also marks a significant junction half a world away in Indonesia which has significant forest areas.
The agreement was designed to help Indonesia with its commitment to the U.N.'s global REDD+ program (Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation).
Attempts to halt deforestation in Indonesia are much less advanced than Brazil which started its drive in the 1980s.
"In short, in our opinion and analysis, the moratorium has not been working well in halting deforestation in Indonesia," said Yuyun Indradi, Greenpeace forest campaigner in Indonesia.
"We must attain both development and the management of our forest -- simultaneously," he said.
A spokesman for the Indonesian government adds that they are working on the maps and new concessions permits, and to determine the extent of forest damage and how to control it.
"Reliable monitoring and information are essential for protecting forests," said the institute's Fred Stolle.