(OPRAH.com) -- At first glance, Jeanne, Amy, Nikki and Desiree don't seem to have much in common.
Jeanne, Amy, Desiree and Nikki were all born into the Tony Alamo Christian Ministry, which, some say, is a cult.
Ex-followers say that by the late 1990s Alamo was living in this sprawling compound with more than a dozen women, some of whom he called his "spiritual wives."
Amy says Alamo made her say vows and submit to his sexual desires when she was 14.
Desiree says Alamo then forced her to have sex with him.
Despite pressure from family members and friends who still belong to Alamo's church, they testified against their former leader.
"Tony Alamo said God appeared before him in his body and told him that he needed to go spread the Lord's message or that he would surely die," Lynn says.
"Susan Alamo actually operated a television ministry," Lynn says.
They were told their prayers would raise Susan from the dead, but when it didn't work, a former member says Alamo blamed his faithful followers.
Over time, Alamo began to exert more control over members of the Tony Alamo Christian Ministry.
During a 2008 interview with CNN anchor Rick Sanchez, Alamo ranted against the Catholic Church and argued that the Bible implies that puberty is the age of consent.
Jeanne, Amy, Nikki and Desiree say that when they lived in Alamo's Arkansas compound, he controlled every facet of his followers' lives, and threatened violence and eternal damnation if they dared to disobey him.
Jeanne, Amy, Desiree and Nikki say that when Alamo set his sights on a young girl in his congregation, her parents couldn't say no.
"My mom had told me the only person I was going to marry was Tony Alamo," Amy says.
Four days after Alamo exchanged vows with Jeanne, his eighth "wife," she says he made her have sex with him.
"I didn't know about sex.
Despite what she'd been taught all her life, Nikki says she also felt that Alamo's manipulation and teachings were wrong.
One afternoon, Nikki says she fled the compound.
"He sent every person out to look up and down the highways," Nikki says.
Finally, she spotted a house across a field and hurried to the front door.
But Alamo's church, which is still in business, sent a message.
"Tony Alamo has no secret world or child brides.
That's like getting 18 issues FREE.
TM & © 2011 Harpo Productions, Inc. All Rights Reserved.