The acting prime minister has gone so far as to say that a Russian invasion would mean war and an end to his country's relationship with Russia.
1.
Many Eastern Ukrainians still speak Russian, and the 2010 presidential elections divided the country with Eastern Ukraine voting heavily in favor of pro-Russia Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych.
The Ukraine Parliament voted him out of power and he has fled to Russia.
What will happen in Ukraine if Russia sends troops there?
They've also said that any invasion would be illegitimate, a response echoed by the United States, which has told Russia to respect Ukraine's sovereignty.
International leaders have also denounced the prospect of Russian involvement, while Obama has warned there would be consequences if Russia acted militarily.
Obama hasn't been specific other than to say Russia could face "greater political and economic isolation" and that the United States "will suspend upcoming participation in preparatory meetings for the G-8" in Sochi.
"That means 20 years of trying to work with Russia down the drain," he said.
For a year, Yanukovych insisted he was intent on signing a historical political and trade agreement with the European Union.
8.
Why did Yanukovych backpedal?
If Ukraine didn't, and instead joined a Moscow-led Customs Union, it would get deep discounts on natural gas, Russia said.
Yanukovych also was facing a key EU demand that he was unwilling to meet: Free former Prime Minister Yulia Tymoshenko, his bitter political opponent.
11.
They took to the streets, demanding that Yanukovych sign the EU deal.
But the opposition bloc goes well beyond Klitschko and the UDAR.
How did Yanukovych react?
He flew to Moscow, where he and Russian President Vladimir Putin announced Russia would buy $15 billion in Ukrainian debt and slash the price Kiev pays for its gas.
The law barred people from wearing helmets and masks to rallies and from setting up tents or sound equipment without prior police permission.
But wasn't the law repealed?
They feel that too much power rests with Yanukovych and not enough with parliament.
In late January, the President offered a package of concessions under which Yatsenyuk, the opposition leader, would have become the prime minister and, under the President's offer, been able to dismiss the government.
But the opposition refused.
They said Yanukovych had hardly loosened his grip on the government, nor had he seemingly reined in authorities' approach to protesters.
The opposition, in turn, blamed the government.
Street protests that started in November over a trade pact swelled into something much bigger -- resulting in the former President fleeing to Russia for safety while still claiming to be the official leader of the country.