(CareerBuilder) -- I recently came across Zack O'Malley Greenburg's book "Empire State of Mind: How Jay-Z Went from Street Corner to Corner Office."
Whether or not you're a fan of his music -- and between "Empire State of Mind" and "Izzo (H.O.V.A.
If you look at what Jay-Z has done with his career, you might realize that what made him successful is what makes many great leaders successful.
Find something your passionate about and make it part of your life
However, we can find a way to make one of our passions part of our everyday life, even if your interest doesn't fit within your current job.
You never know what will become of your side venture -- maybe a new business opportunity.
What Jay-Z did: One of the other reasons Jay-Z decided to assemble that basketball team in the EBC?
What you can do: The odds are slim that somebody will walk up to you and say, "Wow, all that great work you do?
Instead, make sure you let your boss know when you perform well.
Impress them from the beginning.
What Jay-Z did: In 2003, at the peak of his career (up to that point), he decided to retire.
What you can do: Jay-Z retired, but most of us don't have that luxury right now.
Maybe you need to talk to your boss, find a new job or get into a new industry.
What Jay-Z did: When Jay-Z took over Def Jam records in 2005, he couldn't believe that the business model hadn't changed for decades, and employees had no incentive to work hard.
Greenburg notes how people were intrigued by the fact that Jay-Z wanted to learn as much as he could about the business.
But workers can get the attention of the boss and other leadership by coming forward with new ideas.
What Jay-Z did: Jay-Z and Beyoncé are basically music royalty, and when they began quietly dating, everybody wanted to know about it.
Suddenly your personal drama overshadows your hard work.
Of course, there are a lot of other things Jay-Z's done right in his career, so I suggest checking out "Empire State of Mind."
&copy CareerBuilder.com 2011.