Doctors knew the mother was HIV positive and administered the drugs in hopes of controlling the virus.
A "functional cure" is when the presence of the virus is so small, lifelong treatment is not necessary and standard clinical tests cannot detect the virus in the blood.
"We didn't have the opportunity to treat the mom during the pregnancy as we would like to be able do to prevent transmission to the baby," said Dr. Hannah Gay, a pediatric HIV specialist at the University of Mississippi Medical Center.
Once it was determined the Mississippi mother was HIV positive, Gay immediately began giving the infant antiretroviral drugs upon the baby's delivery in an attempt to control HIV infection.
Within a couple of days, Gay confirmed the child was HIV positive.
HIV-positive mothers given appropriate treatment pass the virus on in less than 2% of cases, Luzuriaga said.
Investigators said the Mississippi case may change that practice because it highlights the potential for cure with early standard antiretroviral therapy, or ART.
The early treatment likely led to the infant's cure, she said.
"Prompt antiviral therapy in newborns that begins within days of exposure may help infants clear the virus and achieve long-term remission without lifelong treatment by preventing such viral hideouts from forming in the first place," Persaud said.
Researchers say the only other documented case of an HIV cure is that of Timothy Brown, known as the "Berlin patient."
In 2007, Brown, an HIV-positive American living in Germany, was battling both leukemia and HIV when he underwent a bone marrow transplant that cured not only his cancer but his HIV.
Researchers tell CNN only 1% of Caucasians -- mostly Northern Europeans -- and no African-Americans or Asians have this particular mutation.
Even then, some HIV experts said that doesn't matter, that he's been cured.
"On the ultra-sensitive testing, we are occasionally getting signals so we cannot say with certainty that this child is absolutely clear of HIV, but we will continue to follow up with the baby," Luzuriaga said.