(CNN)It really isn't fair that just a million people call New Zealand's South Island home.
Named New Zealand Travel Photographer of the Year in 2013 by the New Zealand Institute of Professional Photography, Hollman grew up on the South Island and says the landscape has had a tremendous impact on his work.
With an annual rainfall of 6.8 meters, Milford Sound is one of the wettest places in New Zealand.
Located within Fiordland National Park, Milford Sound is a 295-kilometer road trip from Queenstown, through vast landscapes of mountains and rainforest.
The 45-kilometer road between Glenorchy and Queenstown may be the most scenic in New Zealand.
Located on the southeast corner of the South Island, The Catlins is home to beautiful waterfalls such as Matai Falls.
It's a 30-minute forest walk to reach Matai Falls, with parking available at the Matai Falls car park on the Southern Scenic Route, 18 kilometers south of Owaka.
"The old wooden poles at the end of the beach have always been one of my favorite places to photograph," says Hollman.
Some of the largest boulders measure more than two meters in diameter.
The boulders are located on Koekohe Beach on State Highway One, 75 kilometers north of Dunedin or 40 kilometers south of Oamaru.
Tekapo is located on State Highway 8, midway between Christchurch and Queenstown.
Lake Tekapo is on State Highway 8 between Christchurch and Queenstown.
Located in Aoraki/Mount Cook National Park, it features a number of walks and activities for all levels of fitness.
"The mountain is spectacular to photograph and is always different each visit," says Hollman.
Located in Aoraki/Mount Cook National Park, Tasman Glacier on Tasman Lake is New Zealand's longest glacier at 27 kilometers.
The lake mirrors two of New Zealand's highest peaks -- Mount Cook and Mount Tasman.
Activities can be booked from the township of Franz Josef, located five kilometers away.
Running 450 kilometers from north to south, the Southern Alps form a natural range along the entire length of New Zealand's South Island.
"A scenic flight is a fantastic way to see these mountains closeup," says Hollman.
"The braided river banks and mountain light make for some great landscape photography," says Hollman.
He recommends views of the river from State Highway 73, between Arthur's Pass and Christchurch.