(CNN) -- The publication of a report into child abuse in the northern town of Rotherham, England has shocked Britain to the core.
A journalist's investigation into the wider scale of abuse prompted the local council to conduct its own report -- and it's the staggering numbers revealed in Jay's findings that have caught the public's attention.
The report concludes that elected council officials were reluctant to talk directly to the Pakistani community about the problem and that some staff were frightened of being labeled "racist" for doing so.
But a focus on political correctness should not distract from the wider, institutional betrayal of children by police, social services and local politicians.
The report explained how the grooming of victims (from all racial backgrounds) occurred: "Schools raised the alert over the years about children as young as 11, 12 and 13 being picked up outside schools by cars and taxis, given presents and mobile phones and taken to meet large numbers of unknown males in Rotherham, other local towns and cities, and further afield."
On one occasion, a police officer said that a 12-year-old having sex with five adults shouldn't be categorized as sexual abuse because it was "100% consensual in every incident" (this advice was overruled).
When crimes were reported, cases were gathered and reports filed to the council's staff and elected officials.
Just two years later, the opposition Labour Party endorsed him for its candidate to be elected Police and Crime Commissioner for South Yorkshire.
There is also the frightening possibility that those responsible for failing to defend the children will not see justice.
The report does not name names and it's likely that the social workers and council staff who were so obviously negligent have moved on to jobs in other areas, spreading their incompetence across the country.
Professor Jay did indicate that services have improved at the council but added that it remains understaffed and the long-term victim support inadequate.
One is a hidden history of child abuse, most dramatically brought to light by the revelations that the late children's entertainer and radio host Jimmy Savile (a friend to the rich and powerful) used his position to exploit the vulnerable.
That is the only effective way to expose those responsible, and to shed light on the Dickensian nightmare playing out in modern Britain.