Editor's note: Meloney Dunning, this year's Real Simple "Life Lessons Essay Contest" winner, describes the heartbreaking day when she decided to say good-bye to her newborn son, who was born prematurely.
Alarms were ringing, the numbers on his monitors plummeting.
The doctors rushed me to the operating room, my frightened husband at my side, and delivered our tiny baby by Cesarean section.
Now Adam and I sat at his bedside.
She discussed some of Phoenix's challenges and went to get his doctor.
But what I remember is this: She began to describe to us the difficulties that Phoenix had faced in the last eight hours, the hours during which I had slept peacefully, aided by pain medicine and a false sense of security.
Each time she described a grade, I expected her to stop and tell us that this was the type of IVH that Phoenix had had.
Fleetingly, my heart ached for this doctor who had to deliver such news to us, who had to tell us about the permanent damage that this hemorrhage was causing our son.
It didn't seem possible that this baby could fail, not this little boy who had spent the last many weeks dancing joyfully on my bladder.
As I was lying in my hospital bed in the weeks before Phoenix was born, I had often talked to him.
One of my biggest fears, I told him, was that he would be born and spend hours being poked with needles and feeling nothing but anguish.
While he still kicked inside me, I told him that if he needed to let go, if he wasn't strong enough for this life, I could handle it.
While Phoenix still kicked inside me, I told him that if he needed to let go, if he wasn't strong enough for this life, I could handle it.
And I knew this: My greatest fear for Phoenix was right before me, coming true inside these walls where life-and-death choices were made every day.
What we wanted more than anything was for him to live the time that he had left knowing our touch, knowing our love, feeling that we were with him, no matter what.
The doctor returned, and we told her that we did not want to continue his life support.
She just ushered us to an empty room and told us that she was going to unhook the baby from his machinery.
When the nurse handed him to me for the first time, I fully realized how little, how light he really was.
I willed my son to know that no matter how hard it was, I was right here.
They belong to us, Phoenix and Adam and me.
Just peaceful release.
I have doubted our decision at times, but I know that those thoughts come from fear.
And that is a gift I would never give up, no matter how much pain came along with the package.
In the end, Meloney Dunning, 39, of Indianapolis, was named the winner, claiming a prize of $3,000.