(CNN) -- The final two teams left standing at Euro 2012 should come as no surprise, and nor should another painful exit for perennial underachievers England.
The breeding ground for this English style of football has its roots in the boisterous games of the medieval period, Winner argues, and the intrinsic love for "testosterone festivals" like rugby, which was invented around the same time as soccer.
"We love the battlers like (former England players) Terry Butcher, Stuart Pearce and Tony Adams."
"The collective discipline is important and England and Germany are examples of that.
The tabloids talk about our players as soldiers, so the values that are very highly praised in English football are bravery, passion, obedience, hard work and you don't tend to hear that much talk about creativity and inspiration, which are not soldierly virtues."
Hope can be extracted from two titans of Europe, Spain and Germany, both of whom radically revamped their approach to the game in the last 15 years.
During his stint as manager of Barcelona, Cruyff's doctrine permeated the club, and he played a key role in the establishment of its "La Masia" youth academy that has produced so many gifted players that now make up the backbone for the national team.
German football expert Raphael Honigstein told CNN an insistence on better technical development for young players, instigated in the late 1990s and early 2000s as a result of an under-performing national side, are now starting to pay dividends.
"If you have those technical players at your disposal then that will affect they way you play.
"They invested lots of money into coaching and youth development and they produced better players.
"People would like England to be a winning team but they aren't willing to go through the changes to make it possible," Winner added.
The English Football Association told CNN its new National Football Center, which will act as a development hub for young players and coaches, is due to be handed over next week.
He and his colleagues are trying to mesh the traditional English "warrior" style with the more cultured flavor of Spain and Germany, in order to produce players who are comfortable in any type of match situation.
Players love street football moves to beat and humiliate an opponent but the game is high tempo, high octane power and speed with an edge of violence," Hilton said.
Both Winner and Kuper agree that England needs a new model, and beginning with a detailed look at how Spain and Germany transformed their fortunes would be a productive starting point.
They qualify for tournaments almost always.