Boko Haram militants killed as many as 2,000 people, mostly civilians,in a massacre that started the weekend before the terror attack on Charlie Hedbo in downtown Paris.
While the terrorists in Nigeria targeted innocent civilians in a strategic northern town in Nigeria and in a crowded marketplace, the gunmen who stormed the headquarters of Charlie Hebdo took aim at one of the most cherished values in France: freedom of expression.
"No country knows better than France, that freedom has a price because France gave birth to democracy itself," he said.
That symbolism, which drove millions into the streets of Paris, cities around France and around the world, was also quickly seized on by France's President François Hollande, who quickly called for national unity in an address that honed in on France's ardent belief in freedom.
And the attacks in Nigeria have barely resonated within the country's borders, said John Campbell former U.S. ambassador to Nigeria.
By contrast, the attacks on freedom of speech resounded strongly not just in France, but around the world.
The attacks also gave France a shot in the arm, reinvigorating a long-lost sentiment of national unity not seen since at least the last World Cup.
But the reaction to the attacks has given the National Front and Marine Le Pen a slap in the face like only Charlie Hebdo -- which regularly lampooned the party and its leader -- could.
Christians, Muslims and Jews, immigrants and those with deep roots in France joined together to proclaim "Je Suis Charlie."
But the attacks by Boko Haram in Nigeria don't stoke the same fears in the West, former House intelligence committee chairman Mike Rogers said.
Al Qaeda in the Maghreb (AQIM) was at one time the largest funder of Boko Haram, Rogers said, and AQIM has largely influenced the Nigerian group's tactics.
Without a sense of urgency or a direct threat, the American and European public are unlikely to react to attacks in Nigeria in the same way as they react to attacks in Paris.
"We're conditioned by years of reports coming out of Africa to expect this type of thing in Africa."
In France, around Europe and in the United States, people connected on social media and reacted in real time as they watched each development unfold on cable news or through dramatic videos posted to YouTube.
There are not only fewer reporters and news cameras in Nigeria than in Paris, but access to the northern region of Nigeria where the attacks unfolded is dangerous and practically inaccessible.