(CNN) -- Mitt Romney and Paul Ryan hit the campaign trail Thursday to pitch energy policy and defense spending, as new polls showed President Barack Obama maintaining a slight lead in three key swing states after Romney named the conservative House Budget Committee chairman as his running mate.
Acknowledging that conventional sources of oil were dwindling, Romney said the new production would come from places like the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, Canada's oil sands and shale formations.
The CBO report, which was requested by Ryan, said 70% of the nation's oil and gas reserves already were available for drilling.
Obama has touted increased oil production in recent years, and also opened up new areas for drilling in the Gulf of Mexico and indicated he'll issue permits to drill in the Arctic.
Romney has said he would not support extending the federal subsidy for wind power, which expires at the end of the year.
The event came a day after a new CBO report outlined the potentially dismal impact of the impending "fiscal cliff" that includes the expiration of the Bush tax cuts and mandatory reductions in government spending, including defense outlays.
"Under a Mitt Romney administration, this will not happen," Ryan said of the automatic cuts to military spending.
The new Quinnipiac University/CBS News/New York Times polls showed Obama leading Romney by 49%-46% in Florida and 49%-47% in Wisconsin, which is Ryan's home state.
In Florida, support for Romney ticked up 1 percentage point from a poll taken before Ryan was added to the ticket.
With a potential hurricane possibly heading toward Tampa, Florida, the site of the Republican convention scheduled to begin Monday, GOP officials made clear Thursday that Romney would be nominated as the party's presidential candidate next week regardless of whether the storm disrupts proceedings.
The convention is scheduled to run through Thursday evening when Romney will officially accept the nomination and deliver his acceptance speech.
A new Obama campaign ad released Thursday features former President Bill Clinton -- in increasingly visible surrogate for Obama.
"President Obama has a plan to rebuild America from the ground up, investing in innovation, education, and job training.
In his stump speeches, Obama frequently credits Clinton-era policies for the strong economy in the 1990s.