Marc Marquez has exploded onto the scene like a grinning Catherine wheel, redefining the expectations of rookie riders and cocking a gleeful snook at the establishment, leaving dazed rivals scratching their heads in disbelief.
Someone who knows all about the challenges of being a MotoGP rookie is James Toseland, who spent two tough seasons riding for the satellite Yamaha Team after making the step up from Superbikes, where he was a double world champion.
Herve Poncharal, principal of the Monster Yamaha Tech 3 team and leader of the IRTA group that represents MotoGP's teams, told CNN that Marquez served early notice of his special talent.
"
This vibrant personality is one of the key reasons many see Marquez as the natural successor to Italy's charismatic seven-time world champion Valentino Rossi.
"In Australia (after Marquez was controversially disqualified) Jorge Lorenzo, Dani Pedrosa or Valentino Rossi would have left the track and been very long faced.
"Mother nature didn't gift Lorenzo the way she gifted Marquez," Poncharal said.
"Rossi, (Casey) Stoner, Lorenzo, Pedrosa and other riders have put the championship at an incredible level, and I think one of the assets of Marc is that he has been beating people like Lorenzo and Pedrosa, who are really great, great riders.
Marquez was allowed to go straight into a factory MotoGP team -- Repsol Honda -- at an age that was previously prohibited by the sport's so-called "rookie rule."
Poncharal believes that Marquez would have achieved success even without a factory bike.
"At the moment he has the lot, he's on what feels like the best bike, which is for sure a bonus, although Lorenzo is showing us that the Yamaha is not so bad," he said.
"I used to get my elbow down with qualifying tires, and that's what it's all about really -- it's the tire technology, Bridgestone have obviously developed a tire with the edge grip now that enables the bike to lean over that far, and also enable you to lean off the bike that much with the confidence that the grip is there," he said.
"It's always difficult to say, 'He's going to be the greatest of all time,' " Poncharal said.