Boston (CNN)After weeks of dramatic testimony, jurors are set to begin deliberations Tuesday in the trial of Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, who faces life in prison or  the death penalty for working with his brother to explode bombs at the 2013 Boston Marathon.
Tsarnaev fidgeted at the defense table as he has done throughout the trial.
Dzhokhar Tsarnaev "chose a day when the eyes of the world would be on Boston," Chakravarty said.
The prosecutor showed a picture of Dzhokhar Tsarnaev and his brother Tamerlan in the marathon crowd.
If Tsarnaev is found guilty of at least one of the 17 capital counts, the trial will proceed to a second phase, the so-called penalty phase.
"He was there," defense attorney Judy Clarke conceded as the trial opened, but the defense strategy always had been to focus on persuading the jury to spare Tsarnaev's life.
This time jurors see Tsarnaev standing by a tree behind the family of little Martin Richard.
But luck had nothing to do with the Boston bombings, the prosecutor said.
The brothers' acts that day were intended, he said, "to make a point.
"
"If not for Tamerlan, it would not have happened," Clarke argued.
"There should be no doubt in your mind that the defendant and his brother are equally guilty," he said.
"Tamerlan Tsarnaev didn't turn his brother into a murderer.
According to testimony, Tamerlan Tsarnaev set off a bomb made from a 6-quart pressure cooker, explosive powder from fireworks, duct tape, nails and BBs on Boylston Street near the finish line.
Twelve seconds later, Dzhokhar Tsarnaev allegedly detonated a second, similar bomb outside the Forum restaurant, slightly more than a block away.
Lu "received blast injuries all over her body.
Sean Collier, the MIT campus police officer killed three days after the bombings, "never had a chance."
Dzhokhar Tsarnaev struck Tamerlan, who was wounded, when he charged police in the car.
"Tamerlan wanted suicide by cop," the prosecutor said Monday.
As he hid, he used a pencil to scrawl what prosecutors called a "manifesto," in which he said he was jealous of his brother for dying as a martyr and reaching paradise.
And they traced the purchase of the pressure cookers, ammunition and BBs, which appeared to have been made by Tamerlan.