Twitter is on the verge of its initial public offering and everyone's knickers have been in a knot all week over the company's lack of management diversity -- that is, women.
First, there aren't enough women at Twitter or in the tech world because there aren't enough women anywhere.
Some facts: Women make up 6% of chief executives at the leading 100 tech companies, and that has taken years to accomplish.
Twitter had more than a year to prepare for this IPO: Where are the women?
However, companies regularly draw executives from outside their own industries -- sometimes, yes, even women -- when seeking senior-level and board positions.
Despite investing in diversity programs, the management of tech firms is distinctly not diverse, and indeed the industry continues to "dazzle" with incidents in which men gleefully display their not even implicit biases.
After announcing the site with a tone-deaf post, Goldberg was widely mocked for his personal failure to grasp, among other things, how ridiculous his claim to be starting the "first site of its kind" for women was.
Venture capitalists are less likely to invest in startups if there are women involved in their management; investors actively reduce holdings in companies that appoint female directors.
These facts don't reflect women lacking in confidence ideas.
We can't.
As reported by the Federal Communications Commission, our media are almost entirely owned and managed by white men.
The ghettoized status of women and minorities in media and technology, coupled with the lack of venture capital investments, means that our attempts to express ourselves are limited, misrepresented and regularly repackaged to make what we say palatable to a sexist status quo.
The presence of a carefully selected handful of women in tech, regardless of how determined, able and prominently visible they are, has for decades done little to alter the makeup of management and ownership.
This rationale, and others like it, are exactly the kind of "1,000 paper cuts" marginalization that result in fewer women pursuing  tech careers to begin with.