Just a few years back, a new development zone, an adjunct to the main city, was labeled China's largest ghost city -- rows and rows of luxury apartments and office buildings sat empty on vast, deserted boulevards.
Amid the greenery, several wedding couples posed in tuxedos and gowns for professional photographs, the brides pampered by make-up artists.
Several years ago, she had an office job at a construction company that built some of Zhengzhou's rows of towers.
Now a school teacher, Li said, "The housing prices are too high here," in the newly constructed part of Zhengzhou.
Demand for housing has followed the migration of workers from rural areas to cities where work is better paid and easier to find.
One in eight people on Earth will live in a Chinese city.
According to city government statistics, the population in Zhengzhou grew by 30% between 2000 and 2010, and today stands at close to nine million people, roughly the same population as New York City (8.245 million in 2011), London (8.174, 2011) and Bangkok (8.281, 2010).
Dozens of new towers are in various stages of completion, even though real estate companies are still clearly struggling to fill some of the completed buildings.
It would be another five or six years before this virtual city center would be completed, said a saleswoman named Song Lei.
In less than one year, property prices in Zhengzhou jumped 14%, while the benchmark interest rate remains at 3%.
"Come back after 10 years and have a look and it will be completely different," he said, when asked about Zhengzhou's "ghost town" tag.
Miller said the buy-up of property in China is further encouraged by the fact that unlike many Western countries, there is no annual property tax.
The jury is still out on whether or not huge urban development projects like the new districts of Zhengzhou will become vibrant city centers.
He said in the past few years city planners had constructed 14 new university campuses in the city, which he predicted would ensure a quarter of a million new residents.
But of course there will be some big wasteful developments, white elephants, along the way."