The kidnapping serves Shekau on many levels, and observers of Boko Haram say he should not be underestimated.
As deputy to former Boko Haram leader Mohamed Yusuf, who was killed in 2009, Shekau delivered sermons littered with references to Islamic scholars.
He also expressed admiration for al Qaeda as a jihadist movement, although Boko Haram is not an affiliate of the group.
Shekau has no deputy and Zenn says that videos issued by the group never show other commanders.
Nor would Zenn be surprised if Shekau were under the influence of drugs when he recorded his video statement; they have sometimes been found in Boko Haram camps by the Nigerian military.
In abducting so many schoolgirls, Shekau may also have wanted to humiliate the Nigerian government just as the World Economic Forum gathered in the Nigerian capital, Abuja.
Shehu Sani, a human rights activist in northern Nigeria who has previously been involved in mediating with Boko Haram, believes the abduction and other recent attacks are messages to the Nigerian government that the recent arrest of Boko Haram followers in Islamic schools will be avenged.
Boko Haram has suffered several setbacks in the last year.
In his video, Shekau said of the girls: "We would also give their hands in marriage because they are our slaves."
Boko Haram fighters are able to cross the permeable borders with Cameroon and Chad for resupply and to hide out, and U.S. officials believe some of the girls may already have been taken out of Nigeria.
"Boko Haram has likely split up or sold the girls into many small groups," and they can be used as human shields in the event of an attack, he said.
"Any attempt to rescue the girls by force will end in a tragic result -- it could be Nigeria's Beslan," he said, referring to the attempt to free hostages at a school in Russia in 2004 that left more than 300 dead, many of them children.
Sani believes Boko Haram targeted the girls to force concessions from the Nigerian government -- beginning perhaps with the release of Boko Haram followers from prisons.
Boko Haram has begun trading hostages for cash -- most notably in the case of a French family kidnapped in northern Cameroon last year and reportedly freed for some $3 million.
The international outrage sparked by the abduction also serves Shekau.
Few believe Boko Haram is going to wither away until the government addresses inequalities in the allocation of funds between the Christian oil-producing south and the Muslim north.