Bowe Bergdahl on May 31 in exchange for five Taliban figures detained at Guantanamo Bay.
On the Democratic side, Senate allies of President Barack Obama said the deal mediated by the government of Qatar came together too quickly to consult with Congress over an exchange that critics from both parties have labeled too costly.
Members of both parties complain the Obama administration should have let Congress know ahead of time that the exchange was taking place.
"This was a secret military mission in which disclosure of the mission could put into jeopardy not just the life of Sergeant Bergdahl but also the lives of the American servicemen who were involved in the mission," White House spokesman Josh Earnest said Tuesday.
"Nothing in the law requires the Secretary of Defense to disclose the physical details of the transfer," said McKeon, a Republican.
Democratic Sen. Joe Manchin, a moderate from West Virginia known for criticizing the administration at times, said his main concern was the release of five Taliban figures who could return to the battlefield against U.S forces and interests.
A memorandum of understanding between the United States and Qatar on the deal that freed Bergdahl offered "no guarantee" that the five Taliban commanders exchanged for the captured Army sergeant would be tracked, a Democratic member of the House Intelligence Committee told CNN.
He wouldn't say who else will be watching, but he said the United States is confident the conditions of their release will be honored.
The President said so explicitly on his trip last week," she said.
After the briefing to House members, some said they were told as many as 80 to 90 administration officials knew of the pending exchange ahead of time, while Congress did not.
The number of administration officials who knew ahead of time of the Bergdahl swap was smaller, Earnest said, but he refused to provide a specific figure.
More Americans disapprove than approve of Bergdahl's release in exchange for five Taliban detainees, according to two new national polls.
The Army has no definitive finding that Bergdahl deserted because that would require knowing his intent -- something Army officials couldn't learn without talking to the soldier, a U.S. military official told CNN.
CNN reported Friday that Bergdahl has said he was kept in a small box after trying to escape, according to a senior U.S. official, who spoke on the condition of not being identified.
The official also told CNN that Bergdahl suffers from psychological trauma caused by physical abuse.