President Abdu Rabu Mansour Hadi's resignation Thursday came after Houthi rebels kidnapped his chief of staff, seized control of key government buildings in the capital, Sanaa, and failed to abide by provisions of a tentative peace deal hammered out Wednesday.
"Our forecast is really civil war in Yemen because we have a lot of nonstate armed groups who are likely to compete over territory and have a lot of competing agendas," she said.
"This really creates a situation where even if the Houthis keep control over Sanaa, they have little chance of taking control of the whole country," said Al Rowas.
But that seems unlikely at present.
Despite their takeover of Sanaa, it's unclear whether the Houthis really want to take charge of the country.
Under Wednesday's failed peace deal, the Hadi government had agreed to rewrite parts of the country's constitution to give the Houthis more political power in return for them withdrawing their militias from key government institutions and freeing the President's kidnapped aide.
They've been at war with the central government for the best part of a decade and are also fighting the Sunni AQAP.
The Houthis have more recently forged an alliance with supporters of former President Saleh, said Al Rowas.
Al Qaeda's Yemen affiliate AQAP is perhaps the best-known group internationally.
The Muslim Brotherhood is also a powerful group in Yemen -- in the shape of the Al Islah Party -- and is well represented in the transitional government.
While in power, Hadi and the government of Prime Minister Khaled Bahah have been trying to fight AQAP on the ground and also have authorized U.S. drone strikes in the country against terror targets.
The Houthis have publicly said they oppose U.S. drone strikes and U.S. involvement in Yemen.
Al-Hamdani, the Yemen analyst, said she didn't see an immediate need to pull U.S. personnel out of Yemen.
"The Houthis have been in charge for a while.
Since Hadi's resignation, there has been a lot of anger against the Houthis in parts of the country, said Al Rowas, the IHS Country Risk analyst.
CNN's Tim Lister, Nick Paton Walsh and Jomana Karadsheh contributed to this report.