Washington (CNN) -- Narrow passage of a sweeping health care bill by the House of Representatives portends a continuing difficult fight for President Obama and fellow Democrats to get a bill through the Senate and into law.
The Senate must now pass its own version of a health care bill, and Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid of Nevada last week signaled uncertainty over whether that will happen this year.
On Sunday, Obama praised the "historic" House vote to pass the bill and called on the Senate to "take the baton" and complete its work.
Sen. Joseph Lieberman, an independent from Connecticut, reiterated that he would join a Republican filibuster against a health care bill if it contains a government-run public health insurance option after the chamber's amendment process.
Speaking on "Fox News Sunday," Lieberman called the controversial public option, which is in the House bill and the Senate version being prepared by Reid, an unnecessary provision intended to bring government-run health insurance in the future.
The lone House Republican who supported the bill, Rep. Anh "Joseph" Cao, told CNN on Sunday he put the needs of his district over the desire of his party.
Asked about the reaction of fellow Republicans, Cao said the party's leaders "respect my decision, and I respect theirs."
Also Sunday, Rep. Mike Pence of Indiana, the chamber's third-ranking Republican, said on the Fox program that Democrats were ignoring the wishes of the American public by pushing through the huge health care bill.
Democratic Rep. Chris Van Hollen of Maryland responded on the same show that the Congressional Budget Office reported that the House bill would reduce the deficit.
"Well, it was about what I thought it would be," said House Republican Leader John Boehner of Ohio as he quickly exited.
Later, he issued a statement saying the $1.2 trillion legislation would add to the country's "skyrocketing" debt.
"Nancy Pelosi and her liberal lieutenants made a lot of promises today to get the votes they desperately needed," he said.
In the run-up to the vote, Republicans and conservative Democrats joined forces to pass an amendment to the bill to prohibit federal funds for abortion services.
CNN's Shirley Hung, Brianna Keilar, Deirdre Walsh, Lisa Desjardins and Elaine Quijano contributed to this report.