(CNN) -- Summer is the best time for outdoor musical festivals and blasting music with all the windows open.
A sneak peek of tracks "Black Skinhead" and "New Slaves" on "Saturday Night Live" suggest that he's been listening to a lot of DMX, while his collaborators include Daft Punk, Skrillex, John Legend, members of Odd Future, No I.D., Pusha T and Chief Keef.
Don't worry, the gorgeous falsettos are still intact.
RZA told The New York Times that the group has one last mission: "We need to, one time, completely, efficiently, properly represent our brand," while Ghostface Killah told the Guardian, "We got verses and s---, but you gotta make sure it's right.
The full album was supposed to be out in April, but the Sri Lankan rapper gave us a taste of her new music (outside of last year's"Bad Girls") during Paris Fashion Week for the runway show of the Japanese brand Kenzo.
M.I.A.
Sure, most of your favorite artists are on tour this summer -- from Beyonce to Jay-Z and Justin Timberlake to Taylor Swift -- but you'll get more bang for your buck if you check out one of the many music festivals around the country.
Also, the Experience Music Project will host an electronic dance music stage.
Those farther south on the coast might want to hit up Outside Lands in San Francisco August 9-11 which will include Red Hot Chili Peppers, Yeah Yeah Yeahs, Vampire Weekend and Willie Nelson.
A little farther away from the Big Apple is the sure-to-be-eventful Hot 97 Summer Jam on June 2 in East Rutherford, New Jersey, which includes more Kendrick Lamar, plus A$AP Rocky, Wu-Tang Clan, Fabolous, Wale and Miguel.
The Firefly Music Festival in Dover, Delaware, June 21-23 offers the Alabama Shakes, Tom Petty, Red Hot Chili Peppers and Vampire Weekend, while the Budweiser Made in America fest in Philadelphia August 31-September 1 has Beyonce leading a lineup curated by her hubby Jay-Z: Public Enemy, Phoenix, Emeli Sande, Deadmau5, Wiz Khalifa, Nine Inch Nails, Queens of the Stone Age and Macklemore & Ryan Lewis.
Does that mean we'll have to wait a little longer for her new album?