(CNN) -- If you've read Suzanne Collins' "Hunger Games" trilogy, then the odds are ever in your favor when it comes to cocktail party conversations about Katniss, the Mockingjay and the Quarter Quell.
As punishment to heroine Katniss Everdeen (Jennifer Lawrence) -- who not only outwitted the Hunger Games, but also ensured her partner Peeta Mellark (Josh Hutcherson) survived too (unprecedented!)
With evil monkeys and even more evil victors from previous games to battle, it's a lot for one movie to tackle, but the tributes in "Catching Fire" are more fully-formed characters, and they help set the story apart and keep the conflict interesting.
The big question: With several big names joining the cast, are there any new standouts?
HG 101: So there's this girl Katniss and she's a total badass, and she's basically best buds with the male version of her, Gale (Liam Hemsworth), but she gets sent off to the Hunger Games with Peeta, saves his life a million times and now all the viewers want them to be an item.
Expert take: Peeta might not be such a bad option for Katniss after all!
The big question: What about Gale?
This time the changes leave the door open for Gale to really make his presence (and his intentions with Katniss) known in the two-part "Mockingjay" final installments.
HG 101: While the tributes from the districts must compete to take their next breath, residents of the Capitol are the 1%.
In "The Hunger Games," Effie (Elizabeth Banks) epitomized everything the Capitol stood for: fashion, material things, excess and an obliviousness to the real issues in the districts around them.
After the execution of "Hunger Games" gamemaker Seneca Crane (Wes Bentley), who ignored orders and let both Katniss and Peeta win, Plutarch Heavensbee (Philip Seymour Hoffman) steps in -- and he's not going to make the same weak mistakes as his predecessor.
Alliances will be tested and monkey mutts and Jabberjays will terrorize the returning victors, all while the clock is ticking to save their families, their districts and themselves.