Russian authorities insist that is not the case.
But in November 2010, Shuster said, Navalny "blew the whistle" on what he said was a $4 billion embezzlement scheme at the state-run oil pipeline operator Transneft -- a claim vigorously denied by the head of the company and Russian president Vladimir Putin.
"Navalny quite bravely took on some of the very influential people in Russia," she said.
Navalny presented "a serious political challenge as a result of his unique personality and his amazing energy," she said.
The day before his trial began in April this year, Navalny told CNN's Phil Black he knew he would be convicted and that it was likely he would be jailed.
Asked if he believed he had any chance of winning the case he replied: "Of course not.
Lipman said she also believed the verdict was politically motivated.
Russian authorities have always insisted Navalny's prosecution is not political.
When Navalny arrived in court the day after his conviction, he found the prosecutor who had argued he should be sent to prison arguing instead for his release pending appeal, so that he could continue campaigning for the Moscow mayoralty.
She said that his release was unlikely to have been as a result of protest action after the verdict was announced.
But she said any political involvement would be denied by the government.
Lipman said that if Navalny's conviction was upheld by a higher court, his name would be unable to appear on an electoral ballot.
He remains at large and his verdict is not effective," she said.
Speaking to reporters outside court after he was released, Navalny said he would return to Moscow to discuss his next steps with his staff, RIA Novosti said.
Lipman said Navalny's conviction was not likely to cost Putin any support.
"The minority of more modernized urban Russians -- people who resent the government for being lawless -- people likely to sympathise with Navalny -- I think they will be even angrier.
"Navalny's prosecution is meant to silence a leader and messenger," she said.
Not on previous occasions and not this time."