In August 1992, Becker and Stich had much to celebrate as the duo became the first German tennis team to win Olympic gold -- beating South Africa to claim the men's doubles title in Spain.
Twenty years on, two of Germany's most celebrated tennis players -- whose personal relationship was limited by an intense rivalry -- have still to raise a glass to their historic win.
The Olympics had come at the height of the duo's rivalry, says Becker, with the pair not just the best tennis players in Germany but also the world, as they vied with one another for major honors.
"Research has shown that their rivalry would not necessarily have affected the outcome because they would still have wanted to win for themselves," says Dan Abrahams.
Research in sports psychology suggests that players do not have to like each other for a team to be successful."
Cole, who is still the Premier League's second highest scorer of all time, said in 2010 that he would rather socialize with a player who broke his leg in two places than "with Teddy Sheringham, who I've pretty much detested for the past 15 years.
"Team sports can often be individual sports because each individual is trying to be chosen for the team and garner the manager's attentions, so team sports lend towards some rivalry within the team," says Abraham.
The 2004 Ryder Cup was a case in point as U.S. captain Hal Sutton made an enormous gamble as he paired two very contrasting figures together, in the hope that Tiger Woods and Phil Mickelson could set aside their differences to create a "Dream Team".
Earlier that decade, when one feuding F1 driver (Argentina's Carlos Reutemann) had suggested to a team colleague (Alan Jones) that they bury the hatchet, the Australian's reply -- "yeah, in your back" -- typified the emotions when rivalries run deep.
Three years on from winning medals as teammates at the world championships, Harding's bodyguard and ex-husband hired an assailant to break one of Kerrigan's legs ahead of the 1994 U.S.
Amid all this dressing room tension as players try to be the main man and with enmity between teammates potentially sinking any team, Abrahams warns that strong friendships between players can also bring complications.
"Strong characters like Becker and Stich can deal with an intense rivalry but the less robust cannot," says Abrahams.
We wanted to win the medal so we had to do well in doubles and we were professional enough to just go on that path."