You won't need a costume to take in these attractions, but if you're looking for ideas on what to wear on October 31, you might find some inspiration from these historic -- and sometimes horrific -- destinations.
The Peoples Mortuary Museum is part of a working mortuary in Marietta, Ohio, and it boasts a collection of classic hearses from past centuries, even a horse-drawn hearse from 1895.
Funeral transportation is also in the spotlight at the William Lafferty Memorial Funeral and Carriage Collection in West Union, Ohio, with vehicles dating back to 1848.
If you want to spend the night in the company of such unusual history, check in at the Sturgis House, a funeral parlor turned bed and breakfast in East Liverpool, Ohio.
1 in 1934, hangs above the washing machine in the downstairs laundry room.
Delve into its many layers at the New Orleans Historic Voodoo Museum, where admission is $5 for adults.
Public rituals were once performed in Congo Square, an open space inside Louis Armstrong Park just north of the French Quarter, and even today you can find a voodoo spiritual temple nearby where a modern-day priestess performs rituals.
There's also a cornucopia of New Orleans hotels where the paranormal is considered normal, such as the Monteleone, where you can stay in a haunted room or ride an elevator that seems to have a mind of its own.
Chilling attractions in this historic port city include Civil War relics such as bloodied uniforms, an amputation kit and plenty of deadly weapons.
Be sure to stop by the Charleston Library Society, a downtown cultural hot spot where you're likely to find someone who's an expert on the city's darker side.
Thirty miles north of New York City, you'll find Sleepy Hollow, a village made famous by the legend that bears its name.
Various characters and scenes from the legend are said to be based on the people and places of Sleepy Hollow, such as the burial ground at the Old Dutch Church.
Edgar Allen Poe also lived near Sleepy Hollow, and readings of his works often take place at the Sleepy Hollow Cemetery.
Visitors serious about studying this chapter of history can use the museum as an educational starting point, then spend hours, days or weeks traveling through the region touring the homes, historic markers, grave sites and other relics related to witchcraft hysteria.
Grave robbers are a notorious part of Edinburgh history and urban legend tells morbid tales of plague victims left to die in underground streets.
Even luxury respects the role of witches and the supernatural: October guests at the prestigious Balmoral Hotel can enjoy the perk of Halloween Afternoon Tea, but the concierge staff says the demand for tours of the eerie and bloodcurdling is high year-round.
If you're one to study the history of Halloween itself, you'll find plenty of claims that the tradition of All Hallow's Eve has Scottish roots.