Stine has returned to the evil street that made him famous in the 1990s, and fans are looking forward to the new ways he'll terrorize Shadyside High School teenagers on "Fear Street."
Stine, 70, is the author of more than 300 novels for children and teens, including the much-loved "Goosebumps" and "Fear Street" series.
And I suppose we're all nostalgic for what we read back then."
Popular shows such as "The Walking Dead" and "American Horror Story" helped revive interest in horror literature, said Catherine Scully, young adult editor for the Horror Writers Association.
Unlike horror depicted on television and the big screen, in horror literature for young adults, subtlety is key, rather than shock value, author and horror expert Jonathan Maberry said.
The definition of teen horror can be difficult to pinpoint, especially as new authors broaden the range of topics contained within the genre.
Horror is defined by what scares you, "and that's very personal and different for each person," said Scully, who reviews young adult horror in HWA's 'Scary Out There' blog.
"I look at YA horror as being the swords and shields we give our teens to fight with these problems that we have limited ways of coping with," Scully said.
"Horror combines what readers love by merging the scary creatures from 'Twilight' and gritty, horrifying elements of dystopian (literature)," gothic horror author Winters said.
Kenneth Oppel, author of a young Victor Frankenstein series, believes that part of the appeal of modern young adult horror is the shift away from crazed serial killers to demons within ourselves.
For years, fans have been asking Stine to revive "Fear Street" in online fan forums and over social media.
The "Fear Street" series married supernatural horror with real-life horror of teenagers' deepest fears and insecurities.
While the Stine "recipe" remains the same -- following one character's perspective closely -- Stine says the new "Fear Street" books will be longer, more adult and more violent, reflecting how young adult fiction has changed since the 1990s.
"It will be a roller coaster ride of fearful surprises."