Washington (CNN) -- Lawyers within the Obama administration disagreed with the president's decision that U.S. participation in the NATO-led Libyan military mission doesn't come under the War Powers Resolution, White House spokesman Jay Carney said Monday.
"...
House Republican sources told CNN on Monday that several options are under consideration for votes this week -- probably Thursday -- to exert some congressional control over the Libya mission.
Obama has pledged no ground forces will be sent to the mission, and the House Republican sources said the proposal would be intended to prevent any possible escalation in the mission and give legislators a chance to express their disapproval.
In addition, House members were further angered by news of strong disagreement within the Obama administration over the president's analysis of whether the Libya mission came under the War Powers Resolution.
Gates also backed the Libyan mission, saying Obama was right to limit the scope of U.S. involvement and that he believes the president has complied with the War Powers Resolution.
One of the GOP sources noted that the Republican leadership is facing the same dilemma it did earlier this month, when Kucinich was pushing a resolution that would have withdrawn all U.S. forces from the Libya mission.
Obama responded with a report to Congress last week that argued the limited role of U.S. forces in the NATO-led Libya mission failed to constitute engaging in hostilities as defined by the War Power Resolution.
Passed in 1973, the War Powers Resolution gives the president 60 days to get congressional approval for sending U.S. forces to war, followed by a 30-day extension to end the hostilities.
Congressional opponents of the Libya mission include liberals such as Kucinich who generally oppose any war effort, as well as some Republicans who complain its objective of civilian protection fails to match the stated U.S. goal of Gadhafi's ouster.
In its report on the mission, titled "United States Activities in Libya," the administration said the cost of military and humanitarian operations through June 3 was about $800 million.