Soon, he plans to stand again in Cell 14, Block 2 at the Abu Salim prison in Tripoli.
Shafei wants to return to the place where he witnessed a massacre that fuels his nightmares.
As many as 1,200 prisoners were killed at Abu Salim in the summer of 1996, according to Human Rights Watch.
Since his release in 2000, Shafei had thought about Abu Salim's dead.
Shafei, now working with the opposition in Benghazi, knew he had to return there.
With the Libyan regime on the brink of collapse, Shafei hopes the truth about Abu Salim will finally be known.
Shafei's mother, Najia, clearly remembers that day in 1988 when she returned to her home in Benghazi to find her daughters wailing.
"We had no idea where he was," she said from her home in Atlanta.
The guards would drag her son out of his cell and into a warehouse at the entrance of the jail, where mother and son met.
Shafei spent eight years that way, in a cramped cell, without his family or the education he should have finished.
"Five or seven minutes after it started, the guards on the roofs shot at the prisoners who were in the open areas," Shafei said in an interview with Human Rights Watch many years later.
Much later, while buying lamb at a slaughterhouse in the United States, Shafei commented to his brother Nabil: Not even here can they kill at the rate Gadhafi's men did that day.
"I could not see the dead prisoners who were shot, but I could see those who were shooting," Shafei told Human Rights Watch.
The next day, Shafei was ordered to clean the blood-smeared watches taken off the wrists of the dead.
But the families, mostly from Benghazi, now the de facto rebel capital, did not abandon their longing for answers.
"It was radical," said Sarah Leah Whitson, director of the Middle East and Africa division at Human Rights Watch.
Among those waiting to find out more are three brothers in Atlanta whose father, opposition activist Izzat Almegaryaf, was plucked from his home 20 years ago.
Tasbeeh Herwees, a Libyan-American journalism student in California, recalled in a blog post the funerals for the Abu Salim victims held in the summer of 2009 when she visited Benghazi.
Then in February of this year, the regime arrested Fathi Terbil, a human rights lawyer who represented some of the Abu Salim families.
"The memories of that summer come rushing back as I watch the present events in Libya unfold from my home in Cypress, California," Herwees wrote.
After 12 years at Abu Salim, Shafei was released in 2000.
"Hussein came here and had a mission," Nabil Shafei said.
As the civil war raged this year and Benghazi blossomed as a city free of Gadhafi's grip, Shafei, now 42, returned there from Charlotte, North Carolina.
Now, as the newly freed prisoners began returning home to Benghazi, Shafei knew the time had come for him to go back to the prison.
He owes it to all those who survived Abu Salim.
But mostly, he owes it to the souls of the dead.