Savannah, Georgia (CNN) -- This old Southern city is still waking up when the first members drift into the church basement.
Tonight's dinner and tomorrow's, too.
Worry is nothing new for the congregation at First African Baptist Church, which is well into its third century and one of the oldest black congregations in the United States.
Members say it was the first brick structure in Georgia that was built, used and owned by black people, that it's their own living history of slavery, civil rights and freedom.
More than 150 years ago, slaves built this church by fire and moonlight.
After the first Bible study of the day, Johnny McDonald explains this to a small tour group seated in the church's curved oak pews.
He tells of schisms that divided the flourishing black congregation.
He explains that in the 1830s, a white congregation planned to move to a new location, and offered its land and an aging wooden building to First African Baptist Church.
So, they faced a choice, McDonald says: Use money saved to free themselves, or pool their funds to purchase a church for all.
This very building, McDonald says.
Beneath the wooden floor, builders left a space four feet tall, large enough to hide hundreds of slaves following the Savannah River to freedom.
"You're talking about working 12 to 16 hours, then turning around to come build a church at nighttime and going back to work on fields after that," he tells the tour group.
The pastor interrupts the tour to invite the guests to stay.
It's time for the evening Bible study, and the crowd has outgrown the basement.
Or builders, serving to edify their church and its mission in the community?
This will never be a church that has to look far for service projects, Tillman says.
In Savannah, a city where history now drives much of the economy, they're likely to get community support.
But there's no ignoring history, and especially faith, the pastor believes.
"Just the fact that we're in this building is a constant reminder of where God has blessed us," Tillman says.