"Let's go see some airplanes!"
says our Boeing VIP tour guide.
We're about to walk knee-deep where Boeing gives birth to some of the world's biggest and most advanced airliners, including the 747-8 Intercontinental, the 777 Worldliner and the 787 Dreamliner.
But not so fast -- before we go inside, Boeing has laid down some rules: no photos, no video, for our eyes only.
Suddenly, we're surrounded by partly assembled airliners in a room so big it takes on the feeling of an entire world.
They eliminated that by installing a special ventilation system.
Some are covered with a green, protective temporary coating.
Boeing paints the tails before they're attached to the planes.
The "Wing Build" area -- where workers attach wings to the planes -- is the loudest part of the entire facility.
"Conversation-restricted area," says one sign.
We gather around this rock star engine like thirsty travelers at a desert oasis, each taking turns running our hands across its silver exterior.
In fact, Boeing says it's so big you could fit the body of a 737 airliner inside it.
Engines like this make it possible for wide-body planes to fly long-distance routes nonstop with only two engines instead of three or four.
Just a few hours earlier, a handful of aviation geeks were hanging out at a hotel next to Paine Field, the airport Boeing uses to test and deliver the factory's planes.
In the entire world, there are only four of these giant planes.
Boeing uses them to ferry big sections of the 787 for final assembly here in Everett.
What defines them?
"It's someone who always looks up in the sky when they hear a jet roar," says Ryan Ewing, 14, who runs airlinegeeks.com out of his Bethesda, Maryland, home.
"Boeing has increasingly realized how smart and educated about aviation avgeeks are."
The following day southeast of Seattle, Boeing opens up yet another factory for us to tour.
"Avgeeks love getting access to places that are off limits," says Brown.
— The facility receives pre-assembled fuselages by train from a factory in Wichita, Kansas.
—The planes also get "winglets" — the tiny, upward pointing wings you see on the wingtips of 737s and other airliners.
"Blinking purple is bad for us here," says Christian Ofsthus, a Boeing senior manager.
Driving off the property, we spot a train loaded with brand new wingless 737 fuselages headed to the factory behind us.
"That is so cool," I hear someone say.