(CNN) -- Former Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf came to power in a bloodless military coup in 1999 when he was chief of Pakistan's army.
Musharraf now says he plans to return to his home country sometime at the end of January.
It was during his stint as the country's military chief that there was an opening for Musharraf's political ascendancy, when in 1999 the then-Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif dismissed him after the army's failed invasion in Kargil, in Indian-administered Kashmir.
In 2001 Musharraf appointed himself president of Pakistan while remaining the head of the army.
In a televised address in December 2004, Musharraf announced that he would not step down as top military leader, even though he had previously agreed to give up the position of the head of the army at the end of 2004.
He brought women into the parliament," said Ahmed Bilal Mehboob, director of the Pakistan Institute of Legislative Development and Transparency.
In October of that year, Musharraf was re-elected president by a parliament critics said was stacked with his supporters.
Under pressure from the West, Musharraf later lifted the emergency and promised elections in January 2008.
Bhutto had returned from a self-imposed, eight-year exile to run in the country's general elections two months before her assassination and already had escaped one attempt on her life.
In 2010, further criticism of Musharraf emerged after the United Nations ruled that Bhutto's death could have been prevented had Musharraf's government taken adequate measures to protect her.
Six months later, the coalition moved to impeach Musharraf, who then resigned as president, though he said the allegations of misconduct were false.
In May 2010 Musharraf announced on CNN that he planned to re-enter Pakistan politics and launched a new political party in October of that year.
Chaudhry Zulfiqar Ali, a special public prosecutor in the assassination case, said a Rawalpindi court has already issued an arrest warrant for Musharraf.
Musharraf said that he will return even at the risk of his life.
He described his support as scattered, and said he needs to build it again from the ground up.
I need to muster all the support I can," he said.