Belgium defeats USA 2 -1 in extra time as USA comeback failed to gain traction.
Belgium 2, USA 1.
Belgium scores second goal on USA in extra time.
USA and Belgium enter extra time after two scoreless halves.
USA and Belgium remain scoreless in the second half.
But the game today?
This is one and done.
It's about time soccer caught on in the U.S.
If the boys can beat Belgium, it's off to the quarter finals of the World Cup.
When was the last time you saw the country unite behind one cause, gather in front of massive TV screens, and collectively bellow, "I believe that we will win"?
In Brazil, Americans are second only to the host nation in the number of tickets bought.
When the U.S. last played Belgium at the World Cup, it beat them 3-0.
That's because it isn't.
It plays a boring brand of soccer.
But Belgium wins games.
At the tournament, it's won all three of its games, conceding only one goal.
Also, Belgium has way too many strong goal-scorers.
Without those two, the goal scoring potential increases for the U.S.
Since he was sidelined with a hamstring injury in the U.S opener against Ghana, Clint Dempsey has had to go it alone as the main goal scorer.
And the U.S. has four players who are World Cup veterans (Howard, Dempsey, DaMarcus Beasley and Michael Bradley.)
The last time they were at a World Cup was 14 years ago.
Why?
"He's able to speak French with their players on the field, not with us.
And it's the country that we beat in the last second of the last World Cup."
You know where that places the USA among the 32 teams at the World Cup?
Today, the natural tendency of the team might be to hunker down, ward off the inevitable Belgian onslaught, and make a run for the goal when chances open up.
Yes, the Red Devils have won their World Cup games so far, but they never quite dominated.
Fun fact #1: Before he became Belgium's coach, Marc Wilmots served in the country's senate for two years.
Fun fact #5: Clint Dempsey has another goal: to make it as rapper Deuce.
His 13-track album, "The Redux," comes out after the World Cup.