Rodney King, whose beating by Los Angeles police in 1991 was caught on camera and sparked riots after the acquittal of the four officers involved, was found dead in his swimming pool Sunday, authorities and his fiancee said.
He was pronounced dead at a local hospital, police said.
Kelly -- who was a juror in King's lawsuit against the city of Los Angeles in 1994 -- told police King was an "avid swimmer," but that she was not, De Anda said.
"I am saddened by the death of Rodney King," said Bernard Parks, a Los Angeles city councilman who served as LAPD chief from 1997 to 2002.
"It was his beating that made America focus on the presence of profiling and police misconduct."
"I saw all those apartments over there, so I said, 'I'm gonna stop right there,'" he said.
King said as the officers beat him, they yelled, "We are going to kill you, n***er," although the officers denied using racial slurs.
"We finally caught the Loch Ness Monster with a camcorder," King attorney Milton Grimes said.
But following a three-month trial in the predominantly white Los Angeles suburb of Simi Valley, three of the officers were acquitted of all charges.
"They didn't see (King) get up and run at Powell."
On the third day of rioting, King emerged from seclusion to make a plea: "People, I just want to say, can we all get along?
Two African-Americans were picked for the jury, and King testified.
He told CNN in 2011 that slurs were used, but said he vacillated on the stand because his mother had told him to avoid talking about race.
I just hope we just get one," King said.
"...
Like, 'He broke the law.
No one deserves to get beat like that."
"The trouble that (people) see me in is a part of my life that I'm working on," he said in 2011.
He said King struggled with his sobriety.
"He was a wonderful, kind and gentle man," said Dr. Drew Pinsky of "Celebrity Rehab," who also appears on CNN sister network HLN.
The ranks of Los Angeles police are much more diverse than they were at the time of King's beating.
King said last year on the 20th anniversary of his beating that he has forgiven the officers who beat him.
Overheard on CNN.com: Rodney King 'had demons.