(CNN) -- The deadliest Ebola outbreak in history continues to plague West Africa as leaders scramble to stop the virus from spreading.
"No doubt the Ebola virus is a national health problem," Sirleaf said.
Overall, Ebola has killed at least 660 people in West Africa.
On Friday, a Liberian man with Ebola died in Lagos, Nigeria, Nigerian Health Minister Onyebuchi Chukwu said.
"In collaboration with the Federal Ministry of Aviation, I've also put into motion mechanisms to track down all contacts at high risk," Idris said.
It is unlikely the virus would spread on a plane unless a passenger were to come into contact with a sick person's bodily fluids, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
"When the Ebola outbreak hit, he took on responsibilities with our Ebola direct clinical treatment response, but he was serving in a missionary hospital in Liberia prior to his work with Ebola patients," said Melissa Strickland, a spokeswoman for the organization.
After testing positive for Ebola, he went into treatment at a Samaritan's Purse isolation center at ELWA Hospital in Paynesville City, Monrovia.
Another American working with Samaritan's Purse has also been infected.
She had teamed up with the staff from Samaritan's Purse to help fight the Ebola outbreak in Monrovia when she got sick.
Sierra Leone's minister of health and sanitation called the doctor a national hero for the sacrifices he has made in trying to stop the outbreak.
Symptoms of Ebola include fever, fatigue and headaches.
While the World Health Organization has mobilized to fight the epidemic, it can be a difficult one to stop.
There has never been a confirmed case of Ebola spreading to a developed country, said Kamiliny Kalahne, an epidemiologist with Doctors Without Borders.
"And even if they do get sick once they travel to a developed country, they will be in a good hospital with good infection control, so they are very unlikely to infect others," she said.
Stephan Monroe, CDC's deputy director of the National Center for Emerging & Zoonotic Infectious Diseases, said the CDC is working with American health care providers to educate them about Ebola.