The 60 nights of propofol infusions Dr. Conrad Murray said he gave Jackson to treat his insomnia is something a sleep expert says no one had ever undergone.
Propofol disrupts the normal sleep cycle and offers no REM sleep, yet it leaves a patient feeling refreshed as if they had experienced genuine sleep, according to Czeisler.
Lab rats die after five weeks of getting no REM sleep, he said.
Czeisler -- who serves as a sleep consultant to NASA, the CIA and the Rolling Stones -- testified Thursday that the "drug-induced coma" induced by propofol leaves a patient with the same refreshed feeling of a good sleep but without the benefits that genuine sleep delivers in repairing brain cells and the body.
They argue that the promoter pressured Murray to get Jackson to rehearsals while failing to get Jackson help despite numerous red flags warning that he was in trouble.
• That Murray administered propofol to Jackson 60 consecutive nights before June 22, 2009.
• That Murray began to wean Jackson from propofol on June 22, 2009, and gave him none of the drug on June 23.
Jackson lawyers revised the question Friday morning after AEG Live lawyers objected to the information about Murray's nightly propofol treatments, since it was derived only from the doctor's statement to police after Jackson's death.
Instead, they brought up evidence that Murray ordered more than four gallons of propofol between April and June, which Czeisler said equaled 155,000 milliliters of the drug.
"That's why we sleep at night and are awake in the day," he said.
An adult should get seven to eight hours of sleep each night to allow for enough sleep cycles, he said.
"In REM, we are integrating the memories that we have stored during slow-eyed sleep, integrating memories with previous life experiences," he said.
The area of a basketball player's brain that is used to shoot a ball will have much greater slow-eyed sleep period since there is more for it to store, he said.
He's worked with the Rolling Stones on their sleep problems, he said.
Jackson lawyers argue that AEG Live should have consulted a sleep expert like Czeisler for Jackson instead of hiring Murray -- a cardiologist -- for $150,000 to treat the artist.
Lawyers estimate that the case will conclude in early August.