Few people are allowed past its tightly-sealed borders but footballer Ryang Yong-Gi, who was born and raised in Japan by a loyally North Korean family, is in a privileged position when it comes to entering and exiting.
A hero to football fans in both Japan and North Korea, Ryang symbolizes the unique power of sport to break down boundaries despite deep-seated differences.
But not only has Ryang won respect for his footballing feats, helping his team from J-League division two also-rans to top-flight championship contenders, he has also achieved cult status, regardless of his background.
"I wondered if people would cheer me, a North Korean, but once I was on the team and started playing, I felt l like I was being supported a lot," he said.
The subsequent Korean War led to two bitterly divided states in the North and South, and Korean immigrants left in Japan also split into separate communities.
But the limited range of sporting opportunities in his early schooling also played an inadvertent role in his subsequent professional career.
Ryang was also blessed with a formidable talent and, on leaving education in 2003 found his place in the Vegalta Sendai squad, then playing in the J-League second division.
Ryang did impress enough to secure further call-ups, one of a small cadre of Japan-based players with a similar background, who represent North Korea.
Ryang has been an ever present and key member of the side, but it was the shattering events of March 11, 2011 -- when an earthquake and tsunami hit Japan -- which firmly cemented him as a fan favorite.
Kanno, a restaurant owner in the coastal town of Kesennuma which was heavily hit by the tsunami, said Ryang and his teammates made all the difference in those terrible times for the area.
However, aside from their interest in the trappings of the affluent lifestyle in Japan, Ryang said his teammates were well acquainted with the action from major football leagues such as the English Premier League and Spain's La Liga.
So when North Korea qualified for the 2010 World Cup finals in South Africa, drawn to play mighty Brazil in the first group match, it's safe to say they would have known all about Kaka and Robinho and their teammates.
Ryang had starred in North Korea's lifting of the AFC Asian Challenge Cup in the World Cup year, contributing goals from midfield ("every goal felt amazing") and also helped the team retain the trophy last year.
Like Stojkovic, Ryang has assumed a captaincy role with his club and takes his responsibilities incredibly seriously.
"I need to have a strong presence in the team, and I also need to be trusted by other players," is his philosophy on leadership.
"As I am not a player blessed with speed, I tend to drive a fast car.