Nelson Rolihlahla Mandela at first advocated peaceful opposition to white rule in early work with the African National Congress, a liberation movement.
Over the decades that followed, as the movement against white rule in South Africa began to grow and unrest inside the country became increasingly violent, it became clear to the white government that they could no longer continue to govern without consulting the African National Congress and, in particular, Nelson Mandela.
After spending 27 years in prison, on his release Mandela pursued a policy of reconciliation between black and white in South Africa.
Mandela became president of South Africa in 1994, but he stood for only one term before stepping down and continuing to foster national reconciliation.
Set incongruously in beautiful vineyards near Paarl, the Drakenstein Prison is where Mandela spent the last 14 months of his imprisonment.
Shortly after his release, Mandela built a house at Qunu, his birthplace in the Transkei, based on the layout of his prison lodgings.
Now a fascinating small museum, Mandela's old house in Vilakazi Street in Orlando West in Soweto shows just how black people lived under apartheid.
Mandela returned to this house a few days after he was released from prison, and many journalists interviewed him in the tiny garden, but after his release he never really lived there again.
While not only about Nelson Mandela, this fascinating museum recreates what life was like for both black and white South Africans under apartheid.
The older buildings have a more ominous history.
Built in 1892 under the old Boer Zuid-Afrikaansche Republiek, many of South Africa's most famous political prisoners, including Boer war leaders, Nelson Mandela and Mahatma Gandhi, spent time in the Old Fort Prison Complex.
Arthur Goldreich, a white communist, fronted as the owner of the farm while Nelson Mandela, Walter Sisulu and other prominent ANC activists hid from the police in the outbuildings.
If you are driving down to Durban from Johannesburg, you might want to make a short visit to the site at Howick where Nelson Mandela was arrested.
An ongoing mystery is tied to the place, though, as some activists have said the CIA tipped off the South African security forces, pinpointing Mandela at this spot.
If you find the right people at the museum, they will grab a small piece of plastic chair and you can slide down the vast curved rock that Nelson Mandela slid down when he was a young boy playing hooky from his duties as a cattle herder.
Nelson Mandela's life and legacy are layered into the life and landscape of South Africa, and as the years go by, his stature grows.