HOLLYWOOD, California (CNN) -- Director Antoine Fuqua, the force behind films such as "Training Day" and "Shooter," turned his focus to creating CNN's exclusive short film "From MLK to Today," which airs at 7 p.m.
CNN: As a filmmaker, you work with people like Don Cheadle, Ethan Hawke and Denzel Washington.
Antoine Fuqua: Because it's Martin Luther King, and because it's Barack Obama's story.
So why wouldn't I be here?
Not in an angry or negative way -- just to know where we come from, so we get a better sense of where we're going, and how to get there, and what not to do.
I don't think you can ever forget Martin Luther King and many other people who sacrificed, whose names we don't even know.
There were a lot of weapons around.
Fuqua: I remember a lot of racism.
And we were just going to school.
Fuqua: Not really.
CNN: Did you think there were certain things you couldn't accomplish because you were black?
Fuqua: When I was a little kid, I used to sleep in my grandmother's basement, and I would read magazines, and books and things -- and I would dream of places I would go.
Now he was from the streets in Italy, and he used to paint these very provocative paintings of people he lived with on the streets -- beggars, and prostitutes and things.
CNN: And now you're telling the story of Martin Luther King and Barack Obama.
Fuqua: Never.
They'll say something, or they'll behave a certain way when I know they don't normally behave that way.
So if Hollywood's not ready to embrace more stories about African-Americans -- and that's based on the money that the movies make -- then would the country really be ready to embrace a president?
CNN: As a director, you have this story about an unbelievable presidential election, where a first-term senator wins.
Fuqua: In a heartbeat, in a heartbeat.
CNN: In the short film you're directing for us, you've drawn the parallel between Obama and Martin Luther King.
Fuqua: It is the passing of the torch between Martin Luther King and Barack Obama.
Fuqua: Hope.