Washington (CNN) -- "I am not a member of any organized political party," Will Rogers once joked.
More specifically, as Democrats look toward the future, there's sharp disagreement over whether to stick with a Bill Clinton-style centrist agenda or embrace the unabashed left-wing populism most notably personified by Sen. Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts and New York Mayor Bill de Blasio.
"We are seeing a split in the Democratic Party between self-described progressives and the old guard," Brown University political scientist Wendy Schiller told CNN.
Whichever side wins this fight, one thing is already clear: Six years after flocking to the banner of Obama's "hope and change" candidacy, a lot of progressives are disappointed in the current Democratic administration.
Susan Schorin, a 68-year-old political activist from Virginia, told CNN she is particularly disappointed with Obama's willingness to consider changes to Social Security that could lead to a reduction in future benefits.
One week later, Warren fired off a letter to the heads of six major banks, pushing them to disclose any contributions the banks may have made to think tanks.
Earlier this month, a coalition of 18 environmental organizations sent the White House a letter warning that Obama's "all of the above" energy strategy -- one that embraces so-called "green energy" and more domestic extraction of traditional fossil fuels -- is unacceptable for those sounding the alarm about climate change.
Liberal groups made their displeasure clear last year when Obama considered Larry Summers -- a key member of Bill Clinton's economic team -- to head the Federal Reserve.
Obama, who originally emerged from the more liberal wing of the Democratic Party, appears sympathetic at least to the economic populism arguments.
"The differences between Obama, Hillary Clinton, Warren (and others) are mostly at the margins," he argued.
Schiller also noted that around the dawn of the last century, the Republican Party wrestled with a similar split on economic issues.
The outcome of that struggle eventually helped fuel decades of dominance for Franklin Roosevelt's New Deal coalition.