CARL AZUZ, CNN STUDENT NEWS ANCHOR: The earthquake in Chile was so powerful, it might have affected time!
AZUZ: Aftershocks, still rumbling across parts of Chile.
Secretary Clinton also praised Chile for how prepared it was to respond to this kind of disaster and for how well the nation has responded so far.
Well, according to one scientist, the quake was so powerful it's possible that it affected the Earth's rotation.
JOE JOHNS, CNN CORRESPONDENT: The quake in Haiti was a 7.0, killing more than 200,000 people.
Why is that?
The Chile quake was 30 miles off the coast, deep under water.
AZUZ: Moving to the Middle East now.
Iraq has selected an ambassador to Kuwait for the first time in two decades.
And since he was removed from power in 2003, Iraq and Kuwait have been building ties.
Me
I'm the U.S.
AZUZ: That business isn't doing so well.
The postmaster general, the man who runs the Post Office, says that it'll take a big effort to turn things around.
JOHN POTTER, U.S. POSTMASTER GENERAL: If we make the changes that are necessary, we can continue to provide universal service for America for decades to come.
The company says it develops over time, so it's more likely to affect vehicles that have been driven 20,000 to 30,000 miles.
MATT CHERRY, CNN STUDENT NEWS: Today's Shoutout goes out to Mr. O'Connell's AP Human Geography classes at Penn High School in Mishawaka, Indiana!
AZUZ: With the largest population in the world -- 1.3 billion people -- China is making a huge investment in helping those folks get around the country by rail.
Now, trains might sound kind of old school; you might think stagecoaches or something like that.
EMILY CHANG, CNN CORRESPONDENT, BEIJING: Beijing's newest train station looks like a modern airport, and a ride on its bullet train is nearly as fast as taking a plane.
China is now home to the world's fastest train, hurtling from Wuhan to Guangzhou at more than 350 kilometers per hour.
China Southern Airlines is struggling to compete on this particular route as high-speed railways change the way Chinese people travel across this vast country.
Estimated cost: $360 billion U.S., or 60% of the stimulus package China enacted to combat the financial crisis.
There's no reason Europe or China should have the fastest trains.
CHANG: Just like interstate highways transformed the United States, faster trains in China will bring infrastructure, investment and passengers to destinations deep in the countryside.
AZUZ: March is Women's History Month.
AZUZ: And finally, we're digging up some dirt on a man who lives in California.
AZUZ: But you won't hear something like that from our two lips.
CNN Student News returns tomorrow.