Keith vowed to create his solar attic fans entirely out of parts made in the United States.
Keith's company, SunRise Solar, steadily grew to the point that he couldn't keep up with the influx of orders.
He eventually found a company that could help and needed the extra work about 90 miles away in Warsaw, Indiana.
Keith had achieved his own small part of the American dream: He became a self-made small-business owner.
"He said he was with the Obama transition team looking for small companies," Keith recalled.
Keith and his wife were asked to come and -- prodded by his wife -- he stood up and told the president about his solar business.
Keith's success story provided good publicity for the White House which called again and again, using Keith to underscore the Obama administration's goal of pushing America towards new sources of clean energy.
Biden doing this,'" Keith said of the numerous requests he received from the administration.
Strange bedfellows, perhaps, but it was a feelgood story of what one American could do in a time when the recession was strangling so many.
At these events, lawmakers talked about "how I created a solar product, how it's good for the environment, for business," he said.
It also was good advertising for Keith, who could never have afforded the publicity these appearances offered.
The irony is not lost on Keith: A man whose profile and company soared because of the administration's energy policy is now falling apart because of a new Obama anti-dumping policy involving China.
While 95 percent of Keith's fans are American-made, he has yet to find a U.S. company that can make the small customized solar panels that make his fans run.
Keith said the U.S. Customs Department has accused him of using Chinese-made solar panels, in violation of a tough import policy adopted in May at the behest of major U.S. solar companies.
Keith denies that any of part of his solar fans are produced in China, but he admits he can't totally prove it.
Unless he can show specific manufacturing documentation by August 29, Keith said he could be fined as much as 250 percent on his solar panels -- an effective rate of $270,000.
"These guys are going to put me out of business," Keith said.
So he went back to the well one more time, pleading with Greg Nelson, deputy director of the White House Office of Public Engagement who Keith said had been his contact with the Obama administration.
Keith asked in the e-mail.
I don't know what is possible, but let me talk to a few folks asap.
"When Obama came in office, there were a lot of small business owners who said, 'Hey maybe he'll help break barriers and help owners' or he says he will, but it never trickles down that far to help us," Keith said.
I don't know.
Watch Anderson Cooper 360° weeknights 10pm ET.