"Yeah, I was all for Obama.
He was all that."
So this time around, come Election Day 2012, a frustrated Bradshaw says he might not vote at all.
What have they really done?
It's not even Obama.
It's all of them.
Across Iowa, the state where then-U.S. Sen. Obama surprised the nation and swept the 2008 Democratic caucuses, igniting early momentum and propelling him to win his party's nomination over U.S. Sen. Hillary Clinton, other Democrats are standing tall with the president, ready to fight to give him another term.
They just haven't let him do his job.
"He's our first black president.
According to two senior Obama campaign aides, the president's 2012 re-election efforts began in Iowa as early as April.
Since then, they say they've: • Hired 20 paid staffers.• Opened eight field offices.
"We're in 1,774 precincts, in all 99 Iowa counties," said Sue Dvorsky, chairwoman of the Iowa Democratic Party.
And the president, she said, will even make an appearance, "by the magic of the Interwebs."
They have hit him on the economy, they've hit him on foreign policy, health care and the size of government.
"I remember, after he got inaugurated ... and he said, 'Look, if I can't get this economy turned around in three years, I'll be looking at a one-term proposition,' " reminded Mitt Romney during a stump speech Monday in Marion, Iowa.
In 2008 it was Obama.
He must retain the Democratic support he had in 2008 -- when he camped out in the state for months before the caucuses and visited Iowa more than three dozen times -- while convincing the third of the voters who call themselves independent not to drift back over to the Republican side, and the other third who are Democrats not to stay home.
"It seems very hopeless ... hope, change ... but nothing changes," said Bradshaw, the young barber who is fed up with Obama and the process.
"I'd point to the record of achievement, in the face of two things happening simultaneously: The near-collapse of the entire economy, an economy that was bleeding 750,000 jobs.
"
"He'll be on the way back to The White House, and they'll be left sweeping up the floor of the empty rooms, and not much else."