(CNN) -- The deadly attack on the U.S. Consulate in Benghazi underscores the gaping power vacuum across Libya since the toppling of Moammar Gadhafi's regime last year.
The group accused of being behind the consulate assault, the Imprisoned Omar Abdul Rahman Brigades, is said to be pro-al Qaeda.
"Some groups, such as the Ansar al-Sharia Brigades in Benghazi and Derna and the Imprisoned Omar Abdel Rahman Brigades have been involved in increasing shows of force and outright attacks against Western and other targets in Libya in recent months," he said.
Officials are trying to demobilize and reintegrate the militias and bring these groups into the government security forces, he said.
Violence between warring militias and attacks against Western and moderate Sufi Muslim targets erupted in recent months, Wehrey said.
In Benghazi, there was a "rapid deterioration" of security before the U.S. Consulate attack.
The Imprisoned Omar Abdul Rahman Brigades, in fact, first surfaced in May when it claimed responsibility for an attack on the ICRC office in Benghazi.
This spring, an associate of al Qaeda leader Ayman al-Zawahiri addressed a large gathering in the town square of Derna, in eastern Libya.
A 2008 diplomatic cable from Christopher Stevens, the U.S. ambassador to Libya who was slain in the consulate attack, described the area as "a wellspring of Libyan foreign fighters" for al Qaeda in Iraq.
In some cases, Wehrey said, the revolutionary brigades have become "very sophisticated."
Al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb, the al Qaeda branch that operates in Africa, would have connections in the country's far south, if it indeed has any network in Libya, Wehrey said.
Regarding the consulate attack, Wehrey said he thinks the strike "was a much more local affair" than one that involved al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb.
"For the citizens of Tripoli, Benghazi and other cities, all this is a stark and tragic reminder of the perennial problems of poor governance and the security vacuum," Wehrey said.