Two cables from 2007 detailed the discovery of uranium in "multiple containers" in the Democratic Republic of Congo.
The cables, written by the U.S. Embassy in neighboring Burundi, quote an unnamed informant as saying the uranium was found in a fortified bunker.
The informant, described by the Guardian newspaper as a local elder, added: "One container weighing 3 kg is currently located in Bukavu and another 3 kg container is located in Goma," two towns in eastern Congo.
The Congo informants were "anxiously waiting for some sort of indication from us that we are willing to pay for it," according to the cable.
In 2006, U.S. diplomats toured a non-functioning nuclear research center that included two reactors in the Congo capital, Kinshasa.
One, according to the director of the center, contained "5.1 kilograms of enriched uranium," which is U-235, enriched to 20 percent.
"It is relatively easy for someone to break into the nuclear reactor building or the nuclear waste storage building and steal rods or nuclear waste, with no greater tool than a lock cutter."
A cable from the U.S. Embassy there earlier this year noted, "The lone security guard standing watch at Yemen's main radioactive materials storage facility was removed from his post on December 30, 2009, according to (name redacted)."
U.S. President Barack Obama has made it a priority to secure vulnerable nuclear stocks within four years in a global drive to pre-empt nuclear terrorism.
One of the more bizarre incidents occurred in Portugal in 2008, when a man walked into the U.S. Embassy to try to help sell "uranium plates" owned by an unidentified ex-Russian general living in Portugal.
"The driver of the vehicle said that he had recently had surgery, during which time a radioactive isotope was injected into his body," an explanation that apparently satisfied the Georgian border guards.
In another case that is not covered by the leaked cables published so far, two Armenians pleaded guilty last month to smuggling highly enriched uranium into the nation of Georgia, hiding it in a lead-lined box on a train from the Armenian capital, Yerevan, to Tbilisi in Georgia.
Their illicit cargo was not detected by alarms, but they were eventually caught by a good old-fashioned sting operation.