(CNN) -- Jurors who convicted a man of three murders in a 2007 Connecticut home invasion and recommended he be put to death for his crimes said Tuesday that serving on the case changed their lives -- and took an emotional and sometimes physical toll.
Jurors recommended Monday that Steven Hayes, 47, should die for his role in the 2007 invasion of a home in Cheshire, Connecticut, that left Jennifer Hawke-Petit, 48, dead along with her daughters, 17-year-old Hayley Petit and 11-year-old Michaela Petit.
Hayes also forced Hawke-Petit to go to a bank and withdraw $15,000 from an account after finding evidence the account held between $20,000 and $30,000, authorities said.
"I have a 10-year-old daughter at home," Cardona said.
"That is burned in my memory, those pictures of those girls," Calzetta said.
"It takes a toll on your body you don't even realize," she said.
Both jurors said it was hard not being able to talk about the case with their families or even each other during the trial.
"That really affected me," she said.
If jurors had recommended Hayes be sentenced to life without the possibility of parole, "he would have been in general population," Cardona said.
Cardona said he had difficulty viewing Hayes as a person and not just a perpetrator, but maintained that everyone deserves a fair trial -- and that Hayes got one.
"This is a huge deal," Calzetta said.
Both Calzetta and Cardona said they did not buy the defense's claim that Hayes was merely a follower and KomisarjevskyCalzetta said.
...
Cardona said he did not believe testimony that Komisarjevsky triggered Hayes' rage by telling him, when he returned from the bank with Hawke-Petit, that the girls were dead.
"She had no idea what she was walking into," Calzetta said.
"It was a very emotional case and a very emotional two months," Cardona said.
"There was never a shouting match," he said.
Cardona said he was struck by the Petit family telling jurors they were sorry the panel had to go through such an experience.
"...
"...
Calzetta said she plans to attend Komisarjevsky's trial because she wants to support the Petit family.