Both sides, negotiating in Baghdad, delivered proposals in the latest round of talks between Iran and six nations -- the United States, France, Russia, China, Britain and Germany.
Israel, which is believed to have its own nuclear arsenal, has said it may attack Iran to try to stop Tehran from developing nuclear weapons.
Asked whether relief from the tough Western sanctions imposed on Iran will be on the table, the official said, "There is no expectation it will happen as a result of this meeting.
Iran has submitted a package to the nations, with some, but not all, of the points addressing the nuclear issue, said a member of the Iranian delegation who asked not to be named because of the sensitivity of the talks.
Another idea on the table is an updated version of an earlier offer to swap enriched uranium for nuclear fuel, European Union officials said.
Mann said 20% uranium enrichment "is one of the issues that's addressed" in proposals Ashton put on the table.
The Baghdad meeting takes place a day after the head of the IAEA said he would soon sign an agreement with Iran, a sign that Tehran may have agreed to broader inspections of its nuclear facilities.
"They do not need to make concessions to Iran," he said in remarks distributed by his office.
"Without a tightening of the sanctions, Iran will not stop nuclear program development," he said.
Leaders of the so-called Group of Eight -- the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, Germany, France, Italy, Japan and Russia -- called Saturday on Iran to comply with the requirements of the IAEA and open its doors to nuclear inspectors.
"During the meeting, we discussed a wide spectrum of different issues, including nuclear disarmament, peaceful use of nuclear energy and strengthening (the position of) the agency," Amano said Tuesday in Vienna after returning from the visit to Iran.
Foreign Minister Ali Akbar Salehi "welcomed the new IAEA approach toward Iran's nuclear issue based on mutual understanding and bilateral respect," IRNA reported Tuesday.
CNN's Mohammed Jamjoom in Baghdad, Matthew Chance in London and Reza Sayah in Islamabad contributed to this report.