On the third day of oral arguments on legal challenges to the 2010 Affordable Care Act, the justices tackled the question of what would happen if they ruled that the heart of the law, the individual mandate that is its key funding mechanism, was unconstitutional.
To CNN senior legal analyst Jeffrey Toobin, the questioning by justices Wednesday signaled they are ready to invalidate the individual mandate, a step he said could put the entire law in jeopardy.
However, some of the attorneys general of states opposing the health care law said the three days of arguments showed the justices had serious concerns about the law.
Even though the health care law's individual mandate appeared to be on shaky legal ground, few on the court seemed eager to take the drastic step of throwing out the rest of the legislation.
However, lawyer Paul Clement, arguing for opponents of the law, told the justices that removing such a central provision of the law as the individual mandate would leave "sort of a hollow shell" that never would have passed Congress in such a diminished form.
asked Justice Antonin Scalia.
Michele Bachmann, R-Minnesota, a staunch opponent of the health care law, said Wednesday the entire measure falls apart if the Supreme Court invalidates the individual mandate.
Supporters argued that under legal precedent set by the court, the full health care law should be ruled constitutional.
With the legal survival of the individual mandate in constitutional jeopardy, the question of "severability," whether the rest of the law can stand if one part is invalidated, has become more important.
If the court decides the mandate is constitutional -- even in a narrowly tailored way -- it will not even bother to take up the severability question presented Wednesday.
What the court says in these written opinions, how it interprets the Constitution, will be far more important than what was said in the oral arguments this week.
The rulings may be in essence how legislators, individual Americans and history will judge these justices.
However, a federal appeals court subsequently overruled on the severability question while upholding the individual mandate's unconstitutionality.
This might be the one question on which the justices will ultimately agree in favor of the government.