A nurse who had worn protective gear during her "extensive contact" at a Dallas hospital with an Ebola patient who died tested positive during a preliminary blood test, officials said Sunday.
Duncan, the first person to be diagnosed with Ebola in the United States, died Wednesday.
...
Also, Varga said that someone who is a "close contact" of the nurse has been "proactively" placed in isolation.
"This development is understandably disturbing news for the patient, the patient's family and colleagues and the greater Dallas community," the CDC said in a statement, announcing the nurse's test results.
"The CDC and the Texas Department of State Health Services remain confident that wider spread in the community can be prevented with proper public health measures, including ongoing contact tracing, health monitoring among those known to have been in contact with the index patient, and immediate isolations if symptoms develop," the CDC said.
Esper said Texas officials have been keeping a close eye on people who had contact with Duncan.
The World Health Organization estimates more than 8,300 people have contracted Ebola during this year's outbreak.
People are at risk if they come into very close contact with the blood, saliva, sweat, feces, semen, vomit or soiled clothing of an Ebola patient, or if they travel to affected areas in West Africa and come into contact with someone who has Ebola.
The World Health Organization estimates at least 416 health care workers have contracted Ebola, and at least 233 have died.
For weeks, health officials have been monitoring those who had contact with Duncan before he was hospitalized and isolated.
Four days later, he began feeling ill; the following night, he went to Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital.
The Texas health department said officials have interviewed the patient and are identifying any contacts or potential exposures.
"Keeping track of large numbers of people, taking their temperature twice a day, making sure they don't ... leave town, all of that is a lot of work."