IRS screeners used conservative-themed criteria such as "tea party" on "Be on the Lookout" or BOLO lists to determine if groups underwent further review for political activity that would make them ineligible, according to Werfel and the inspector general who first revealed the targeting.
Under tough questioning Thursday at a House Ways and Means Committee hearing, Werfel acknowledged that the different BOLO categories meant liberal groups avoided the extra scrutiny cited by the inspector general that included processing delays and extensive questions perceived by conservatives as political intimidation.
"I didn't want to leave the committee with the impression that we're not seeing diversity of political labels across the spectrum," Werfel said of the IRS targeting.
"If there is anything this report shows, it's just how much more work must be done," Camp said, noting that Werfel had yet to interview principal figures or get other information necessary to determine the origins or scope of the targeting.
Werfel noted that the FBI and inspector general were handling interview of IRS officials involved in the targeting, adding that the investigations could involve criminal behavior.
Republican leaders contend the targeting uncovered by the inspector general's audit indicated political villainy by the Obama administration to try to stifle opponents, such as groups with "tea party" in their names that were flagged for additional IRS scrutiny.
The targeting of conservative groups ended in May 2012, the audit said.
As part of his review, Werfel said 80 groups awaiting IRS action on their applications for tax-exempt status for more than 120 days could self-register with the agency as long as they certified under penalty of perjury that they would comply with applicable laws and regulations.
Confusion over defining what constitutes political activity versus social welfare activity contributed to the targeting by the IRS, Werfel said.
Werfel said the IRS would continue checking on tax-exempt groups to ensure they were following the law.