Former president of Poland, Lech Walesa, was a founder of the Solidarity trade union group that helped bring about about the downfall of communism in Poland in 1989.
Lech Walesa: I prefer to look at today and tomorrow.
Next, we witnessed the election of Karol Wojtyła to the Papacy, the August Agreements, the creation of Solidarity, the imposition of martial law, the Round Table Talks, the partially-free election in 1989, then my presidency as a seal of freedom and lastly the admission of Poland to NATO and to the European Union.
Not to be broken down.
At that time, nobody expected us to succeed.
We knew we had to work together.
This was our greatest challenge and greatest victory.
And the world was in solidarity with us.
Lech Walesa: This is made up of several things.
It's then that a Pole who became pope helped us to organize ourselves in prayer and also made us understand our inner strength.
It was the first time in post-war Poland that the Polish nation had joined forces on such a massive scale.
The Holy Father did not call us to fight, but gathered us in prayer.
When I was fighting, when I was repeatedly arrested and in prison or when I traveled all over the country to coordinate the activity of unions, my wife and the children were left behind at home.
Lech Walesa: We are now in a very different place, in a new era.
Today we can say with confidence that we live in a democratic Poland, in a firmly established free market economic system, in a country built on solid foundations of international cooperation and in a country of high aspirations and hopes for further development.
I'm also very happy to see that even those projects, which seemed doomed to failure due to the very last decisions of the communists, have in fact been able to be saved, such as my beloved Gdańsk Shipyard, the cradle of "Solidarity".
Today Poland is a truly beautiful, modern and open country.
It's true, Poland as we see it today is beyond anything we could have dreamt of at that time.
Lech Walesa: It might seem so, but we still have a problem with the sense of responsibility for the country amongst our citizens.
In Poland, however, it stood at 23%.
First we expect "old Europe" to accept us and treat us on an equal footing and then we renounce our right to vote.
Lech Walesa: The biggest challenge for Poland, Europe and the world is the reshuffling and widening of structures.
It's a task not only for Poland, but also for the entire population of contemporary Europe and the world at large.
The new era offers us new challenges.
Today we must ask ourselves which world we are going to built in this new era and how democracy and globalization are going to look.
Otherwise it may be hard to maintain the world as it is at present.