Manama, Bahrain (CNN) -- At least two people were killed early Thursday morning when Bahraini police swarmed into the capital, Manama, to roust protesters from the Pearl Roundabout, emergency hospital services said.
Hundreds of white-helmeted police swarmed the roundabout.
Robertson said demonstrators he'd spoken to were outraged by the way they'd been treated by security forces.
Robertson told CNN that all the indications pointed to a very bloody confrontation on the part of police.
No!
Heavy thuds and the sounds of police yelling could also be heard.
"We were sleeping," he said.
Police were outside the hospitals as well, he said.
Ebrahim Sharif, secretary-general of the opposition National Democratic Action Society, said he saw ambulances taking people to hospitals but that police were blocking people from going in that direction.
Police were also taking up positions to create a perimeter as much as a mile around the roundabout, preventing people from returning.
An hour after police moved in, the square, where thousands of people had been, was largely empty except for police.
Demonstrators picked up the body of Fadhel Matrook, 31, from a morgue Wednesday and marched to a cemetery with no police presence on the streets, said Nabeel Rajab, president of the Bahrain Center for Human Rights.
King Hamad bin Isa Al Khalifa had vowed Tuesday that his government would investigate the killings of the two protesters by security forces.
At the time, police were nowhere in sight as about 3,000 people laid out blankets and pitched tents.
In a recent report, the group said Bahraini authorities detained 23 opposition political activists in August and September, and held them without contact for two weeks, "during which some allege they were tortured."
In Washington, the State Department said Tuesday it was "very concerned" by the violence and said it welcomed the promise of an investigation.
The protest movement in Bahrain has been organized using social media websites such as Facebook and Twitter, in the same manner as the protests in Tunisia and Egypt.