CARL AZUZ, CNN STUDENT NEWS ANCHOR: Now that is how you get a show poppin'!
AZUZ: The first Friday of every month, the U.S. government usually announces the current unemployment rate.
Some experts were predicting it would stay the same.
AZUZ: President Obama is back in Washington after a trip to Afghanistan.
He made a surprise visit there on Friday, meeting with thousands of U.S. troops.
BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: This part of the world is the center of a global effort where we are going to disrupt and dismantle and defeat al Qaeda and its extremist allies, and that's why you're here.
I'm tired of playing defense.
LOTHIAN: Mr. Obama had planned on flying to Kabul to meet with President Hamid Karzai and visit U.S. embassy employees.
LOTHIAN: Thirteen hundred U.S. troops have been killed in Afghanistan since the war began.
AZUZ: Moving to the legislative branch of U.S. government and the debate over some tax cuts we've been talking about recently.
If they do, it means Americans' taxes will go up.
Saturday, the U.S. Senate voted not to extend the cuts for anyone, but Democratic and Republican leaders are hopeful they they can still work out a compromise.
AZUZ: A new deal between the U.S. and South Korea would get rid of a lot of tariffs.
The president says this agreement will mean billions of dollars in American exports and support 70,000 American jobs.
In fact, they argue that this trade agreement will actually cost U.S. jobs.
It's a little smaller than the U.S. state of Maryland, and it's home to about 3 million people.
The prime minister, Binyamin Netanyahu, says he wants the people who were affected to be able to go back to their homes or to alternative housing within days.
The fire broke out on Thursday.
NICHOLI WYTOVICZ, SHORECREST HIGH SCHOOL STUDENT: I Facebook after I get home from school, and then I do my homework, and then I Facebook some more.
But for one week, there's a school district in Washington state that's going unplugged as part of a social experiment.
The teacher who came up with the idea says people are losing the ability to have face-to-face communication.
But about Friday's blog on a high school football player who got flagged after praying in the end zone, Rebecca says she would not stop pointing to the sky after scoring.
Salicia, like several of you, talked about the First Amendment and said "the player had every right to say a prayer."
Jackson says it's offensive on the ref's part because it's like he's saying "no following religion on a football field."
AZUZ: All right, today's Before We Go segment is about someone who's just a giant baby.
Just wait 'til he's full-grown and weighs 200 pounds!
AZUZ: You know, all the bear essentials.
For CNN Student News, I'm Carl Azuz.