But many Inupiats think "their garden" is being threatened by an international oil rush to get at what may be a treasure trove of more than 25 billion barrels of crude.
Itta's lynchpin decision on whether to fight Shell Alaska's efforts to begin exploratory drilling in the Arctic was among the most difficult of his 67 years.
"It will be an undersea gold rush for oil."
Shortly before Itta left office after serving a maximum term, he reached a compromise with Shell that opened the door for drilling to begin later this year.
"
"We are the Arctic, because we are the land, we are the ocean we are one and the same," says Itta.
It's going to ruin our ocean," said 79-year-old Abagail Nashupuq of Point Hope, Alaska.
"We will be drilling these wells like they are the most complex, most difficult wells that we have drilled in company history," says Pete Slaiby, the vice president of Shell Alaska.
The Arctic's shallow waters will make a Gulf of Mexico scenario less likely, supporters say, because getting to the well will be easier and pressure conditions underwater at the drill site will be more favorable.
Questions also were raised in June about the durability of one of Shell's underwater oil spill containment vessels in severe weather, which resulted in the vessel that was headed to one of the drilling sites to be temporarily held at port in Washington.
If a "blowout occurs late in the drilling season, there won't be time to stop it before the winter ice chokes the site, leaving oil to gush uncontrolled for months."
If Shell finds the oil it's looking for, scientists say melting ice in the Arctic Circle will make conditions friendlier to floating drilling rigs.
In an era when reliance on foreign oil is seen as a security threat, President Barack Obama's support of offshore drilling also helped Itta decide.
Under the agreement negotiated by Itta, the borough agreed not to sue Shell if the company maintains constant scientific research and halts drilling when whales are in the region.
"You're going to be on a fool's errand if you think you are going to please everybody," he said.
"I think I can rest easy that I have done the very best I could to bring our issues as Inupiat Eskimos to the forefront, in a way the oil industry understands -- the permitting agencies understand," Itta said.
For the latest from Erin Burnett click here.