School Bus Safety - Consider some of the challenges involving school buses around the U.S.
I'm Carl Azuz, and you're tuned in to CNN Student News!
AZUZ: If no candidate receives more than 50 percent of the vote, then a runoff election will be held.
The only group that can order a runoff: the Independent Election Commission.
But on Sunday, a White House official said it would be "reckless" to deploy more troops without knowing what kind of government Afghanistan's going to have.
ATIA ABAWI, CNN CORRESPONDENT, KABUL: Coalition forces are fighting fierce enemies in Afghanistan, facing daily attacks by different groups with differing ideologies.
Are they groups that we have to engage kinetically?
In southern Afghanistan you see the traditional Taliban, a group that Mullah Omar still has some influence over.
And many of these groups have cross-border ties with Pakistan.
ABAWI: Professor Stanakzai believes that there are groups and militant fighters that can be reconciled, but many will continue to use Afghanistan as their ideological battlefield.
AZUZ: Are you and your parents considering whether or not to get the H1N1 flu vaccine?
As of yesterday, 11 and a half million doses were available.
AZUZ: And U.S. officials involved in another set of talks taking place in Austria.
The hope in all of that is that the materials would only be suitable for medicine, not weapons.
This one's true.
AZUZ: Keith Bardwell, a judge in Louisiana's Tangipahoa Parish, has caused a national controversy after he refused to marry an interracial couple.
AZUZ: Social networking sites let us connect with friends, but they can also potentially connect us with criminals.
Last year, the Internet Crime Complaint Center got more than 72,000 complaints about Internet fraud involving more than $260 million in losses.
About how many U.S. students ride the bus to school every day?
Approximately 24 million students take the bus to school.
We blogged about that awhile back, and some of you argued that it's dangerous to walk to school, or that you couldn't get to school without the bus.
One question during National School Bus Safety week is are they safe?
Only two percent involve school buses.
AZUZ: Beyond that, Robin Leeds of the National School Transportation Association suggests contacting state lawmakers, because many local school districts get budget money from state legislatures.
AZUZ: Veterans Day is just around the corner, and we want to give you a chance to take part right here.
AZUZ: Before we go, it's about time to go pumpkin picking.
AZUZ: Based on the reaction of the crowd, the event was a smashing success.
we'll see you tomorrow, I'm Carl Azuz.