Despite the Somali terrorist group's calls over the weekend for attacks on malls in the West, including the vast Mall of America in Minnesota, the group isn't much of a threat at all to Americans.
That said, the group has succeeded in recruiting a number of Americans to fight in Somalia, most of whom are from Minnesota.
On October 29, 2008, he drove a truck loaded with explosives toward a government compound in Puntland, northern Somalia, blowing himself up and killing 20 other people, becoming what then-FBI director Robert Mueller described as the first U.S. citizen to conduct a terrorist suicide bombing.
If an American citizen was willing to die in a suicide operation overseas, what might that say about the possibility of Americans conducting suicidal attacks in the States?
Alarmed by Al-Shabaab's campaign of suicide attacks across Somalia and its recruitment of Americans, the State Department designated the group as a foreign terrorist organization in March 2008, making it illegal for a person in the United States to knowingly provide Al-Shabaab with money, communications equipment, weapons or explosives or to join the group.
Adding to the alarm at the FBI, in early June 2011, the agency announced that Farah Mohamed Beledi, from Minneapolis, had detonated a bomb, becoming one of two suicide attackers responsible for killing two African Union soldiers in Somalia.
Ruben Shumpert, an African-American convert to Islam from Seattle, was killed in Somalia in 2008.
More than a dozen Americans have died while fighting for Al- Shabaab, according to a U.S. House Committee on Homeland Security report, while none of the Americans recruited by Al-Shabaab is known to have subsequently planned or conducted a terrorist attack inside the United States, according to a survey of more than 250 jihadist terrorism cases since the 9/11 attacks conducted by New America.
But there is no sign so far that Al-Shabaab's recruits have actually plotted to launch an attack in the United States.