"I bring an extra gun now only because it has a bigger magazine," McMullen says.
"So maybe I get trapped here or something and have to have a John Wayne shootout," McMullen says before interrupting himself, smiling.
McMullen is particularly cautious now, as all of Ferguson and much of the nation waits to see whether a grand jury will indict Officer Darren Wilson for the shooting.
"People like him need to think about it, and not think about 'I'm worried about this stuff,' " McMullen says.
"People are afraid they are gonna throw Molotov cocktails," says King, referring to the mostly nonviolent protests that have taken place in Ferguson since the shooting.
If the world can just see this is one little street in Ferguson going crazy, they'd understand that we're not just one big burning city."
And lots of folks are coming in to the gun range for training, which he says is important for new gun owners.
A gun owner himself, Knowles says gun ownership is a responsibility that should not be taken lightly.
Just down the street from the Ferguson Police Department, hair salon owner Constance Garnett is praying for the best, but her brothers are helping her prepare for the worst.
Bassem Masri, who can be found on any given night verbally lashing out at police, says it is unfair to call the protests violent.
Masri claims to say whatever he wants to police and believes they should be trained to take it.
In the early days in August, police were roundly criticized for their aggressive militarized response.
Wilson, a 28-year-old white police officer, shot and killed the 18-year-old Brown, who was African-American, in a confrontation on August 9.
Since then there have been protests every single day outside the Ferguson Police Department calling for his arrest and indictment.
McMullen is one of the few white business owners in this part of Ferguson.
He says he knows most residents just want to speak their minds without violence, but he says it's "the crazies" that worry him.
"We can change the face of Ferguson, and that's what we're doing here," Royal says.
"Even though we have some bumps in the road, we stick together," Royal says.
"I want to make a statement to the community," Davis says.
"I fear only one thing: God."