"Why are green products often more expensive than ones that don't say they are green or environmentally friendly?
Case: First, it should be noted that not all greener products are more expensive.
There are also greener products that do not cost extra.
There are now energy- or water-efficient versions of all sorts of products -- refrigerators, windows, air conditioners, televisions, dishwashers, ovens, showerheads, washing machines, etc.
Why are other greener products still more expensive sometimes?
Any new innovative product, whether it is "greener" or not, costs extra initially.
Absolutely.
It is also possible, however, to buy high-quality, greener products, at very good prices, at growing numbers of mainstream retail outlets.
Carla Dos Santos
Legitimate environmental claims can be certified by independent outside third-party auditors.
Make sure any environmental claim is specific, backed by proof, and, preferably, verified by an independent, outside third-party.
There are certainly efforts underway to provide consumers with additional information about the environmental impacts of their purchasing decisions.
Some particularly savvy green consumers, however, want additional information beyond knowing that a product has been certified as meeting a standard.
I think we will see the emergence of hybrid labeling systems that do provide greater detail about the environmental features of a product.
As a result, those products are becoming more widely available for consumers too.
Now that the information is available, consumers can use the EPEAT information to make their own purchasing decisions.
There are persistent rumors of efforts underway to use the legislative power of the federal government to encourage greater transparency regarding the environmental footprint of a product and to make it easier to share that information with consumers.
Is this happening in any countries?"
A variety of efforts are attempting to separate the truly green labels from the fake green ones.
Make sure you can answer the following questions about an environmental label before making a purchase:
-- Was it created by a manufacturer or a trade association to promote their own products, or was it created by an independent outside organization in an open, public, transparent process?
-- Review the standard to determine whether it covers multiple environmental issues throughout the entire product life-cycle, which includes the raw materials used to make the product, the manufacturing process, transportation and packaging, and the impacts of using and discarding or recycling the product.
Other programs -- including EcoLogo, Green Seal, and the Chlorine Free Products Association -- independently review product test data and visit the manufacturing facilities to ensure compliance with the standard.
There is a three-page appendix to the Six Sins of Greenwashing report that provides additional information to help identify legitimate environmental standards.