But here's what I also know: You wish you could once and for all get your financial house in order.
Seventy-eight percent said it is very important that they not become a financial burden to their loved ones, but just 24 percent are confident they can pull that off.
And Build Security is about knowing where to put all that money you free up.
Track your spending Why it's important: You know the big-ticket expenses in your life, but all the smaller spending can also be a killer.
Input your average monthly expenses, and get honest about where your money is going.
Check your credit profile Why it's important: Your credit score affects the interest rates you're offered on credit cards and loans, can be used to vet your job application, and in some states may influence your insurance premiums.
Do this now: Go to AnnualCreditReport.com to get your free credit reports from the three credit bureaus: Equifax, Experian, and TransUnion.
Once corrections are made, go to MyFICO.com to buy your FICO credit score.
Cut Spending by 10 Percent Why it's important: The median pay raise for 2010 is expected to be around 3 percent (the lowest forecast in 25 years).
Shop for Insurance Deals Why it's important: You're always looking for the best prices -- why not on home and auto insurance, too?
Do this now: Go to InsWeb.com and NetQuote.com to find premium quotes from a variety of home and auto insurers.
(But do this only if you have an emergency savings fund that can cover the cost of the deductible.
Do this now: Go to FindaCreditUnion.com and look for one that is part of the federal insurance program run by the National Credit Union Administration (go to NCUA.gov and click on Consumer Share Insurance Information and Tool Kit to check).
Challenge your property-tax assessment Why it's important: Your tax is typically a percentage of your home's assessed value.
Boost emergency fund to cover 8 months of living expenses Why it's important: By now I am sure you have started saving.
Do this now: Go to MyFDICInsurance.gov for banks and NCUA.gov for credit unions to verify that your emergency fund is tucked away at an institution that is federally insured.
Roll over 401(k)s from former employers into an IRA Why it's important: Once you leave a job, you can move your 401(k) to a brokerage or fund firm.
Fund a Roth IRA Why it's important: After you max out on the company match in your 401(k), turn your retirement investing attention to funding a Roth IRA.
Leave your retirement funds alone Why it's important: Can't handle the mortgage?
Do this now: Don't cash out your 401(k) when leaving a job.
Under "current principal," input the value of your 401(k).
Convert to a Roth IRA Why it's important: As of January 1, anyone can convert a traditional IRA to a Roth IRA (previously there was an income limit).
Do this now: Convert in 2010 and you can spread your tax bill over the next two years.
Subscribe now!