Sarah Palin's hometown required women to pay for their own rape examinations while she was mayor, a practice her police chief fought to keep as late as 2000.
He said the only ongoing resistance he met was from Wasilla, where Palin was mayor from 1996 to 2002.
Alaska's Legislature in 2000 banned the practice of charging women for rape exam kits -- which experts said could cost up to $1,000.
For years, Alaska has had the worst record of any state in rape and in murder of women by men.
During the time Palin was mayor of Wasilla, her city was not the only one in Alaska charging rape victims.
Tara Henry, a forensic nurse who has been treating rape victims across Alaska for the last 12 years, told CNN that opposition to Croft's bill from Wasilla Police Chief Charlie Fannon was memorable.
"Several municipal law enforcement agencies in the state did have trouble budgeting and paying for the evidence collection for sexual assault victims,"  Henry said.
"I remember they had continued opposition," Croft said.
Others compared it to "dust[ing] for fingerprints" after a burglary, only "the victim's body is the crime scene."
The bill passed unanimously with the support of the Alaska Department of Public Safety, the Alaska Peace Officers Association and more than two dozen co-sponsors.
"I just don't want to see any more burden on the taxpayer."
"The bigger picture of what was going on at the time was that the state was trying to cut their own budget, and one of the things that they were doing was passing on costs to cities, and that was one of the many things that they were passing on, the cost to the city," said Patrick, who recalls enormous pressure to keep the city's budget down.
Patrick was also a member of Wasilla City Council, and she doesn't recall the issue coming before council members, nor does she remember discussing the issue with Palin.
Before Palin came to City Hall, the Wasilla Police Department paid for rape kits out of a fund for miscellaneous costs, according to the police chief who preceded Fannon and was fired by Palin.
Palin is committed to supporting victims and bringing violent criminals to justice," Hazelbaker said.
The rape kit charges have become an issue among Palin critics who say as governor she has not done enough to combat Alaska's epidemic problem of violence against women.
Victims' advocates say that services are lacking and that Palin cut funding for a number of programs that treat female victims of violence.
As governor, Palin approved a funding increase for domestic violence shelters -- $266,200 over two years.