(CNN) -- "Beyond the hedonism of tasting these wines -- and the hedonism of tasting these wines is going to be off the charts -- I think there will be two very important ideas that come out of this," says wine educator and "The Wine Bible" author Karen MacNeil as we share a bottle of Stony Hill 2012 Napa Valley Gewurztraminer over lunch.
Despite a 6.1-magnitude earthquake on August 24 that resulted in damage ranging from a few broken glasses to structural damage to some buildings and equipment, 2014 is already looking to be another excellent and abundant vintage.
The Napa Valley Experience -- organized by the nonprofit, 500-member Napa Valley Vintners association from September 7-10 -- is arguably the most sensational event taking place this harvest season.
When I eat with celebrated vintner Michael Honig at Michael Chiarello's Bottega in the foodie mecca of upscale Yountville, he has a treat to share -- a bottle of the Honig 2010 Westside Trio Cabernet Sauvignon, a limited edition Premiere Napa Valley auction label, which he cradles in the crook of one elbow.
"Only 240 bottles were made," he adds, pouring the ruby red liquid into my glass.
"Vines started developing, the people starting coming, then Napa started something that in the world now is pretty prevalent -- opening the cellars to tourists.
We embark on an ATV tour of the vineyards that produce Quintessa's single blend, crafted to be the perfect expression of the terroir.
This will be the setting for a private Napa Valley Experience harvest party on the final night of the event.
"I could go into family-owned, solar-powered, certified organic, but I really want people to feel this place and to come away and realize that they've been somewhere really special, both because of the stewardship and because of the magic of the property itself," says Chappellet.
she says, before greeting a team precision-grafting rootstock and bud to produce new sauvignon blanc vines come spring.
At Hall Rutherford, after a discussion of the philosophy behind the winemaking process, Mike Reynolds, Hall Wines Napa Valley president and winemaker, and owner Kathryn Hall, pose a challenge -- to blend my own version of the Kathryn Hall cabernet from the barrel provided.
She was given a preview of this year's Napa Valley Experience.