It's a hardscrabble Mexican border town and home turf for "Los Zetas," a gang of hitmen and corrupt former special forces cops on the bankroll of the Gulf Cartel.
They said Zeta gunmen recently smashed one reporter's fingers with a hammer as a warning to the media to stay away.
A black SUV pulled up alongside the soda stand.
First I saw the ostrich skin cowboy boots, then the highly polished 9 mm pistol strapped to his side.
Our visit to Camargo lasted just 20 minutes.
Much as we wanted to explore the underbelly of the drug war raging in Mexico, it was clear the capos, or bosses, and their hired guns were in no mood to talk.
Customers, even an argumentative drunk, fell silent as we ordered a beer in a dingy cantina.
From here their bloody reach stretches far across Mexico and deep into Central America.
The man, whom we can't name for his safety, explained how he had been recruited at gunpoint two years earlier by the Zetas to be what they call a "landowner" (terrateniente in Spanish) -- in charge of cocaine distribution in a handful of neighborhoods.
Over the next few days, he said, the same gunmen scared off or killed rival drug dealers, leaving him in charge of what he said was a $4,000-a-day business.
He realizes working independently of the Zetas may be fatal.
It's just not allowed to work freelance," he said.
Mob assassins are no longer content with efficient execution-style killings.
But in a sidewalk cafe in Guadalajara, "Jose" explains there is a clearly defined set of narco-rules that must be followed.
You might not want to kill somebody but you have to because it's all about respect," he said.
Jose added that he believed groups of corrupt officials and law enforcement officers were using the militarization of the border region not as a means to crush the drug cartels but as a way of forcing them to pay a bigger slice of the drug profits as bribes.
In November, Mexico's former drug czar was detained on suspicion that he may have accepted $450,000 a month in bribes from drug traffickers.
He had been in charge of the attorney general's office that specializes in combating organized crime.