(CNN) -- Here's what Katie Roche expected when she went into the hospital for spine surgery: two titanium rods, a bone graft, 17 screws in her vertebrae, eight hours in the operating room, and a week's stay in the hospital to recover.
Because of the infection she picked up at the hospital, Katie, who was 19 at the time, dropped from 120 to 90 pounds.
What's really disturbing, he says, is that these children didn't have to get sick.
Her mother called the doctor, and he told her to bring Katie back to the hospital.
Doctors found Katie had an infection -- not C. diff, but another bacterium -- and did a surgery to clear it up.
"I was throwing up all the time, and was so weak that one day I just blacked out in my hospital bed," she remembers.
Three years ago, the hospital had 5.3 C. diff infections for every 1,000 hospital admissions, and in the past three years it's had none at all, according to Dr. Alfonso Torress-Cook, epidemiologist for the hospital.
Based on Pacific Hospital's success, here are some things parents can do to protect their children from C.diff when they're in the hospital.
If your hospital doesn't offer yogurt, Torress-Cook suggests that you bring it in yourself and that one serving a day is enough to help protect your child.
Know the signs of C. diff infection
"Parents are with their kids all the time," he says.
3.
The Committee to Reduce Infection Deaths has more information on how routine cleaning by hospital staff might not be enough to control C. diff.
Kathleen Roche says they'll never know how Katie got sick, but they wonder if she got it from a feverish little girl who shared a room with Katie during both her first and second hospital stays.
After Katie was moved into her own room, her parents were told to wear gowns to cover their clothing and prevent the spread of their daughter's infection to themselves and others.
"There should be no difference whatsoever between precautions for the parents and precautions for the staff," Pronovost says.
"As a parent I know we worry we're going to piss off the doctor if we ask too many questions," he says.