(CNN) -- The United States will talk to North Korea, but only if the country gets serious about negotiating the end of its nuclear weapons program, Secretary of State John Kerry said Friday during a visit to South Korea, a key U.S. ally.
Still, the defense agency said it has "moderate confidence" that North Korea could fit a nuclear weapon on a ballistic missile and fire it.
And Kerry said Friday that it would be inaccurate to suggest that North Korea, which has conducted three underground nuclear weapons tests since 2006, can launch a nuclear-armed missile, despite the DIA assessment.
"We urge North Korea to cease its reckless behavior and to stop issuing threats," he said.
Washington wants Beijing to "stop the money trail into North Korea" and to carry a strong message to the North that getting rid of nuclear weapons on the Korean Peninsula is China's goal, said the official and a senior State Department official.
Pentagon spokesman George Little said that "it would be inaccurate to suggest that the North Korean regime has fully tested, developed or demonstrated the kinds of nuclear capabilities referenced" in the DIA study.
"I have to believe they know what they're doing," said McKeon, chairman of the House Armed Services Committee.
On Thursday, North Korea briefly raised a missile into an upright firing position, stoking concerns that a launch was imminent, a U.S. official told CNN.
The United States and South Korean militaries have been monitoring the movements of mobile ballistic missiles on the east coast of North Korea.
An official South Korean investigation found that many of the malignant codes employed in the attacks were similar to ones used previously by the North, said Lee Seung-won, an official at the South Korean science ministry.
"Japan would not be pushed around by rhetoric of North Korea," he said.
The notice, made at the request of the U.S. military in Japan, is believed to be part of precautions taken against possible North Korean missile launches.
Kerry said Friday that U.S. officials were working to calm the crisis, noting President Barack Obama had canceled some of the exercises.
"I think we have lowered our rhetoric significantly," Kerry said.