Along with the best picture and best director nominations, the film also earned nods for best actor (Daniel Day-Lewis), best supporting actress (Sally Field), best supporting actor (Tommy Lee Jones) and best adapted screenplay (Tony Kushner).
"Les Miserables" and "Silver Linings Playbook" both received eight nominations, including for best picture.
De Niro earned a best supporting actor nomination for "Silver Linings Playbook."
Washington received his sixth nomination, a best actor pick for "Flight."
You really like me!"
"Beasts," a magical-realist fable about a little girl and her father surviving the caprices of weather, emotion and civilization off the Louisiana coast, received four nominations: best picture, best director (Benh Zeitlin), best actress (Wallis) and best adapted screenplay.
...
Wallis was considered too young by some -- "Sorry, Quvenzhane Wallis, but Best Actress Oscar Nods Are for Big Kids," read a headline in The Atlantic -- and Zeitlin's directing competition included Quentin Tarantino ("Django Unchained"), Kathryn Bigelow ("Zero Dark Thirty"), Ben Affleck ("Argo") and Tom Hooper ("Les Miserables").
"Amour," about a husband and wife coping with the effects of a stroke and aging, received five nominations, including nods for picture, director, actress, original screenplay and foreign-language film.
Other best actress nominees are Jessica Chastain ("Zero Dark Thirty"), Jennifer Lawrence ("Silver Linings Playbook") and Naomi Watts ("The Impossible").
Bigelow's snub was particularly surprising, given that she and her film had dominated critics' lists during awards season.
After its nomination for best picture, the Center for Constitutional Rights, a legal advocacy organization, released a statement in protest.
Instead, though the film received seven nominations, Affleck was left off both the directing and acting lists.
The movie, however, picked up best picture and best original screenplay nominations.
Some voters were so frustrated they visited the academy headquarters in person on the last day of voting -- Friday, extended one day because of the issues -- to make sure their votes were recorded.
He got a nomination for co-writing one of the original song nominees, "Everybody Needs a Best Friend."
The 85th Academy Awards are scheduled for February 24 on ABC.