Now that he has been found guilty on every count, the jury must decide whether Boston Marathon bomber Tsarnaev, 21, should live or die for what he has done.
I miss her a lot," said William A. Campbell Sr., dabbing at his eyes as he described his daughter, a 29-year-old restaurant manager who was killed in the first blast at the 2013 Boston Marathon.
She was the one who could round up the family and put on big celebrations, he said.
To understand the toll Tsarnaev's bombs took, jurors must know the stories of his victims, the prosecutor said.
"Before he murdered them in some of the cruelest ways imaginable, they were sons, they were daughters, they were grandchildren, they were brothers and they were sisters."
"She traded that in for a bat," Campbell said.
By contrast, jurors also were left with an indelible image of Tsarnaev, taken when he was in a holding cell in the very courthouse where the trial is being held.
Tsarnaev saw the people he killed as "the enemy," she said.
The people who were maimed by Tsarnaev's bombs are also testifying during the sentencing phase of the trial as prosecutors try to show the impact on victims of the attacks.
Chaos like I'd never seen and never hope to see again," she said.
When she looked around, she saw blood and muscle everywhere.
Just seeing that on my own body," she said, and began to cry.
Looking down at the blood I was just shocked that much blood could come out of someone," she said.
She said she began to scream.
"And then our whole world just exploded," she said.
She remembers being knocked to the ground, hearing nothing and then screams, and seeing blood everywhere.
She wondered if she would die.
"I remember thinking I was going to die, that no one could go through that much pain.
I remember thinking I wanted to die.
And then, she said, "the mom in me" took over.
Absolutely," she said.
Right now I'm not comfortable," she said from the witness stand.
"You don't realize until you're a double amputee how many dips and hills and inclines there are," she said.
CNN's Greg Botelho contributed to this report.