Once aboard the German carrier's A346, he was led to his first-class suite, where a spacious leather seat and ottoman ran the length of four airplane windows and various compartments overflowed with noise-canceling headphones, menus, pajamas and slippers.
It's not surprising, then, that recent reports show that cabin modifications, especially those that favor upper-class travelers, are the fastest-growing segment of the airline MRO (maintenance, repair and overhaul) industry.
Swiss' new first class, launched in 2009, offers a spacious executive desk for one that converts to a comfortable dining table for two (for those who want dinner company); Lufthansa added cabin humidifiers, and trumped the seat-to-flatbed race by adding both a flatbed and a chair to each first-class suite on their 747s.
They might sound like the dimensions of a Super Barbie, but 78-23-35 are the specs for the first-class suites exclusively offered on Singapore Airlines' A380s.
The fully encapsulated cabins, where you can dine on lobster thermidor and rack of lamb, feature beds accented with hand-stitched Italian leather, trimmed in burrwood and topped with a plush mattress and Givenchy bedding.
That's the genius behind Swiss's new first-class cabin.
Exclusive to the fourteen first-class passengers aboard its A380s, Emirates' Shower Spas afford guests the mile-high luxury of a hot, five-minute in-air shower.
Voted best first class two years in a row by airline-review website Skytrax, Etihad's Diamond first-class suites are arranged in a one-one configuration, each individually sealed off behind Jaali screen--style sliding doors.
At first glance, the JAL Suites aboard the carrier's 777s seem to offer nothing new.
Leather seats are ergonomically designed, oversized lap trays (where you can tuck into "anytime" dishes like Wagyu burgers and udon noodles) are height-adjustable and ottomans double as optional guest seating.
Lufthansa recently trumped the industry's seat-to-flatbed race by halving the number of first-class suites aboard its 747s and giving each a seat and a bed.
A private entrance leads to the first-class cabin on Cathay's 777s, where just six tranquil pods create a spacious herringbone layout that optimizes passenger privacy.
First-class washrooms also feature the industry's first in-air electronic bidet toilets.
The eight first-class suites aboard Jet Airways' fleet of 777s offer passengers 26 square feet of private space.
In first class, the redesign has meant the comfy, elegant Kosmo Suites -- 83-inch-long compartments encased in wood-grained shells, with leather interiors in cream and sea-green hues.
Do you fly first class?
Share your thoughts in the comments below.