John Blake, who helped write the CNN.com special report "Black in America," is author of the 2004 book "Children of the Movement," which profiles the children of the civil rights movement's leading figures and of segregationists.
Martin Luther King Jr. was a civil rights icon, but for one man, he's something else: the father he barely remembers.
"When I was growing up and I wanted to talk to my father to get advice, and no one was there, it hit then," he said.
King was one of 23 "children of the movement" I talked to over a two-year period starting in 2002.
King, as expected, talked about the pressures of being the son of a civil rights icon.
What surprised me, though, was that so many other children of these famous leaders had a far different problem -- they didn't know that their parents were famous civil rights leaders.
The children of other important movement leaders would tell similar stories.
One learned that his father was important when he saw him flee from a mob in a civil rights documentary.
"
I had not understood how brutal the movement was.
Several were disowned by their families.
Their memories were too painful to share with their children.
Many of them experienced a massive emotional letdown after their time in the movement.
James Zwerg gave the movement one of its most unforgettable images.
He could never find a cause that made him feel so alive.
The difficulties their parents experienced had another unexpected effect on their children: It turned some away from activism.
A few movement leaders found ways to parlay their experiences into political careers, but many of them struggled financially.
The biggest surprise came from the children of the segregationists.
The daughter of George Wallace -- the Alabama governor who once boasted that segregation would last forever -- said her father had to be a segregationist to get elected.
He would never mistreat one of them."
She, like so many children of the movement, now wonders if their parents' pain was worth it.