The waters off the Big Island of Hawaii's Kona Coast are known for their manta rays: majestic and curious sea creatures with wings that can span up to 20 feet.
Big Island Divers is one of many reputable companies running year-round night trips for ages 10 and older to both dive and/or snorkel with manta rays.
"We have the brightest luminescent bay in the world," says Barbara Schneider of Abe's Snorkeling and Bio-Bay Tours.
The best time to go is on a moonless night after an especially sunny day, since dinoflagellates collect sunlight during the day and then flash that light as a defense mechanism in the darkness.
Singapore's Night Safari is open 365 days a year, beginning at 7:30 pm.
A couple of live performances -- including a 20-minute Creatures of the Night show highlighting the many behaviors of nocturnal animals -- takes place each evening.
Only 700 people are allowed on the island at night, compared to the approximately 5,000-6,000 people that come through each day.
The Alcatraz Night Tour takes place Thursday through Monday and includes an audio cell house tour, as well as a narrated boat tour around the island.
Play Granada's Night Adventure Tour brings you in contact with many of them under the cover of darkness.
Well known for its rich variety of wildlife, Costa Rica has as much to offer visitors at night as it does by day.
Just outside the glitz and flash of the UAE's most populous emirate lies the expansive emptiness of the desert, where you can experience a traditional Arabic meal and cultural performance beneath the glow of thousands of stars.
It's a stunning and remote campsite with low-slung tables, pillows for seats and plenty of shisha (Arabic water pipe) for smoking.
South Africa's night game drives offer the chance to experience wildlife viewing in a unique way.
Night Game Drives typically begin around 5-6 p.m. and last three hours.
A heated snowcat transports you to the top of Rainbow Mountain, where you sit down to a multi-course meal (catered by Whistler Village's famed Barefoot Bistro) in a yurt.
Laura Kiniry is a freelance travel writer based in San Francisco.