If you've spent any time downloading music, apps or other stuff from iTunes, you know what Meyers is talking about: Those messages from Apple that pop up on your laptop, iPad or iPhone and say, "iTunes Terms and Conditions have changed.
Before you can proceed you must read & accept the new Terms and Conditions."
Probably not.
Jonathan Handel, a Los Angeles-based entertainment  attorney who specializes in digital media, technology and intellectual property, said that because the iTunes terms are essentially a contract, people should treat them as such and give them more than a cursory glance.
"When they change the iTunes terms, as they do all the time, they give you all 50 pages instead of giving the option of seeing the changes," Grossman said.
"It's not that Apple is acting badly," Grossman said.
Overall, the two lawyers said that none of the terms really surprised them, and that customers do not have much to worry about.
But Grossman and Handel said that there are three clauses that users should be mindful of:
Grossman said that while this is not something to lose sleep over, people should know where their information is going.
"You should assume that everything you do is tracked or trackable."
Grossman said that there is no leeway on this point, and that anyone who tried to take Apple to court over a lost digital file would lose very quickly.
3.
Handel explained it this way: When we buy something from iTunes, we are paying for the license to listen to music or watch a movie on our iPhone or other Apple device.
By contrast, the terms and conditions for Google's Android Marketplace are about five pages long.
Grossman said that doing so could potentially expose Apple to legal action.
In addition, Handel said the lengthy terms are not all Apple's doing.
That's what needs to be highlighted."
But in the meantime, Handel said, Apple customers should scan those terms and conditions the next time they get that pop-up message.
"People should be empowered the way they deal with the world.