Bobby Petrino is no longer calling Hogs at the University of Arkansas, because somebody by the handle of "hoggrad" on that popular woopig.net website for Razorback fans first reported that the Arkansas football coach wasn't exactly watching game film that evening.
As a result, those who run professional sports teams have combined with athletics directors on the collegiate level to use a new approach regarding highly successful coaches, managers and others involved with scandalous situations: They whack them.
"All of this (instant reporting of scandal) in regards to how it relates to the electronic media has certainly heightened the information and interest and lessened tolerance," said Georgia Tech athletics director Dan Radakovich, who has worked for big-time intercollegiate athletic programs for nearly three decades.
You had to talk to a number of different people before you felt like -- or the organization felt like -- they had gathered enough information to be able to make a reasonable or rational decision," Radakovich added.
And, in some ways, there's an expectation that the decision should come quicker.
The Eustachy photo was the first in a string of high-profile sports scandals broken by a random person.
That same year, ESPN received an audiotape of a 2002 telephone conversation between the wife of Syracuse associate head basketball coach Bernie Fine and a former team ball boy.
It talked of parties and gifts for North Carolina football players, and those revelations led to the Tar Heels receiving NCAA probation, vacating two seasons worth of games and the firing of popular coach Butch Davis.
Eustachy.
If the situation was bad enough back then, university bosses might deliver a private or public reprimand.
Not if we're talking about that generation's Petrino, who isn't in line to become the next pope, but who has those worshipping (as in giving financially to) the University of Arkansas as if it were the Vatican of college football.
They also would have covered their ears when their 51-year-old coach later confessed that he was riding with a 25-year-old female employee of the university named Jessica Dorrell.
And that Dorrell wasn't his wife or the mother of his four children.