The introduction of new engine technology in 2014 was never going to be easy and so it proved in preseason testing as all three engine suppliers -- Renault, Mercedes and Ferrari -- had teething problems with their power units.
Renault, which supplies engines to Red Bull, Lotus, Toro Rosso and Caterham, is in the biggest trouble ahead of the Melbourne opener.
The drivers will have to manage their car's fuel consumption, and that's a race craft some may have to learn.
Those days are now over as the 2014 rule change means there is just a single exhaust exit from the side of the car -- and the good news for F1 fans is you will never hear the phrase "exhaust-blown diffuser" again.
"Reliability is still a big question mark," said the German, who set the 18th fastest time on the final day in Bahrain.
Hamilton has given the Red Bull his vote of confidence, calling Adrian Newey's 2014 design "stunning."
But there have been reliability glitches, and Hamilton will want to forget his crash on day one of testing in Spain.
The nine-time constructors' champion set the fastest time at the final test thanks to Ferrari recruit Felipe Massa and also ran its car over several race distances.
Both teams have gone the distance but are yet to show they also have the pace.
"There will be some long days and nights before the first race," warned Lotus head of trackside operations Alan Permane.
He may not be a rookie, but Australian Daniel Ricciardo will come under increased scrutiny in 2014 as he steps up from Toro Rosso to replace Mark Webber as Vettel's teammate at Red Bull.
The seven-time world champion remains in hospital more than two months after he sustained a serious head injury in a skiing accident.
The new season also brings some changes on the pit wall as McLaren team principal Martin Whitmarsh and Mercedes boss Ross Brawn were both victims of restructuring.
The looming season will also see drivers use race numbers they have chosen for the rest of their F1 careers, with No.
After three winter tests, Red Bull is on the back foot; Mercedes and Williams may be favorites, but just who will win in Australia remains, as always, a race into the unknown.