New York (CNN) -- The man who shot and killed two New York City police officers as they sat in their patrol car had posted angry messages on social media, ranting against the government and police, New York Police Department's Chief of Detectives Robert Boyce said Sunday.
Brinsley had an address connected to him in Georgia but that appears to be his sister's home, and they are estranged, Boyce said.
On Saturday afternoon, Brinsley fired four rounds at officers Rafael Ramos and Wenjian Liu in the Bedford-Stuyvesant neighborhood.
"Today is the worst day of my life," 13-year-old Jaden Ramos posted on Facebook about the slaying of his father, Rafael Ramos.
Everyone says they hate cops but they are the people that they call for help.
"We're just hopeful that this tragedy will not be in vain and that we will be able to heed the words of the Ramos family and bring the city together to heal," said U.S. Rep. Hakeem Jeffries, a Democrat who represents large sections of Brooklyn.
Both had dreamed of being police officers, Bratton said.
And to all members of the service, be safe," he said.
"When a police officer is murdered, it tears at the foundation of our society," the mayor said.
"Two brave men won't be going home to their loved ones tonight, and for that, there is no justification," Obama said in a statement.
Boyce said that there is no indication that Brinsley had any gang ties, and police have found no religious statements on social media accounts that investigators continue to pour through.
She said that when Brinsley showed up at her apartment, they argued.
Baltimore authorities communicated to New York police Sunday at about 2:10 p.m. when Baltimore County police made a phone call to the 70th Precinct in New York to tell police there that the phone of a suspect wanted in Thompson's shooting was pinging at a location in the 70th Precinct.
The posting made reference, police said, to the high-profile deaths of African-Americans Michael Brown and Eric Garner.
Baltimore County police also faxed a "wanted" poster to New York police with information about Brinsley.
Now, we have two families that (are) missing somebody for the holidays," Shaniqua Pervis told CNN affiliate WABC.
This is two (officers).
A grand jury's decision not to indict the police officer in the Garner case, as well as a separate grand jury's refusal to indict an officer in a controversial police shooting of unarmed teen Michael Brown in Ferguson, Missouri, led to nationwide protests against the police.
Al Sharpton said the Garner family was outraged by the police officers' killings.
"Any use of the names of Eric Garner and Michael Brown, in connection with any violence or killing of police, is reprehensible and against the pursuit of justice in both cases," the statement said.
CNN's Ray Sanchez, David Shortell, Mariano Castillo and Kevin Liptak contributed to this report.