Earlier this week, European Union data watchdogs, fighting to protect our privacy in an age of big data, put pressure on Google over the privacy of user information.
But these glasses, a kind of digital surrogate for our eyes, are strange in a creepy, Hitchcockian, "Rear Window" sort of way.
The EU is concerned about the way in which Google has, since last March, been pooling the data of its individual users across its popular services like search, Gmail, Google+ and YouTube in order to bundle them up for advertisers.
But in the eyes of the EU, those of us using products like YouTube, Gmail or Google+ are being, to borrow a Microsoft coined neologism, "Scroogled" by Google's new privacy policy.
And yet, in light of Google Glass, the EU's concerns seem like a quaint throwback to a more innocent digital age.
But Google Glass opens an entirely new front in the digital war against privacy.
But there's something particularly troubling about Google Glass.
According to Google co-founder Sergey Brin, quoted by tech website Mashable, "Glass will also have an automatic picture-taking mode, snapping pics at a preset intervals (such as every 5 seconds)."
Erin Burnett's strange "world seen through Google Glasses" is actually, as another leading tech site Techcrunch notes "the world seen through Google's omnipresent eye."
And the terabytes of data sucked up every five seconds by its omniscient glasses will, of course, flow to Google.
And Google Glass could, I fear, become the focal point for all our data in a world where privacy no longer exists.
Google Glass, thus, may become the pivotal post PC, post iPod and post tablet device.
You see, the whole point of Google Glass is actually to successfully engineer serendipity.
But what to do?
To qualify, well-heeled Google fanboys need to go to their Google+ or Twitter accounts and, in 50 words or less, using the hashtag #ifihadglass, explain how they would use Google Glass.
No, Google Glass must be opaque.
The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Andrew Keen.