"I grew up in rural Alabama, in a poor area of the state," the three-term Republican noted during a recent interview in his Washington office.
Adding millions of newly legalized workers to the mix over the next few years will only hurt the most vulnerable segments of the work force, Sessions said.
"My Republican colleagues seem to be oblivious to the free market," Sessions said.
He is by far the Senate's toughest critic of the bill -- crafted by four Democratic and four Republican colleagues -- as it winds its way through the Democratic-controlled Senate.
"We're going to tell the truth about the bill.
"When President Bush said that there were certain jobs Americans won't do, I consider it to be one of the greatest errors in his entire presidency," Sessions said.
They ought to be respected for it.
Some immigration reform proponents insist there's no way to truly lock the border down if there's a strong enough economic incentive to come to United States.
"A nation that pretends to have a lawful system of immigration has to be willing to execute that," Sessions said, noting that bitter opposition of the ICE agents' union to the "Gang of Eight" bill.
Flake and Graham have been working with the panel's Democratic majority to prevent any major changes to the bill.
"Everybody needs to know it -- who's calling the shots," Sessions said at one recent committee meeting.
"I will not support citizenship for people who entered the country illegally," Sessions said.
The bill as currently written "just further incentivizes amnesties in the future," he argued, invoking one of the most bitterly contested terms of the debate.
"There's nothing for Sessions to lose and maybe lots to gain" in opposing the "Gang of Eight" bill, Fording said.
As a result, he says, the bill was written by big labor and business interests.
"The political consultants and pollsters and people (managing the bill) ... anticipated everything that was going to occur," he declared.
"I believe that, politically, at this point in time we should serve and listen to the concerns of the working Americans who are making $20,000 to $45,000 a year," Sessions said.
And so, if we end the illegality with a good, principled immigration bill, (if) we allow a generous but responsible flow of immigrants in the future, and if we improve the lives of working Americans, then that's the way you win elections."