Just one small glimmer in the spreading gloom.
That's how it felt to share my story of living with depression a while back.
I may never be able to reduce the intensity or frequency of these bouts, but with time, experience, therapy and the love of some extraordinary people, I have learned that the blanket will eventually lift and I'll be able to feel alive again.
If you can't help someone, you aren't good enough.
I look around me at the life I live.
"But, then there are times that the sky clears up, and life is just good.
For anyone suffering through depression, try to remember that the lives of those around you are better for knowing you."
"For me, it's not 'feeling sad'; it's like I can't feel anything -- just emotionless, tired, dull, uninterested in everything.
Despite the pain in our voices, I'd still count us all among the incredibly fortunate for having the freedom to talk about depression and a language with which to do so.
In particular, children, members of the military and some minority populations can find it difficult to speak about or get help for depression symptoms, often because of cultural taboos or lack of information.
The National Institute of Mental Health reports that young people are likely to mask their their depression in behavior that simply seems like sulking, shyness, reluctance to go to school, clinging to a parent or pretending to be physically ill.
According to Army data, 2012 saw a 22% increase in active-duty suicides, and in a study of 72 active-duty service members who had attempted to commit suicide, every single respondent selected "to stop bad feelings" as part of the reasoning for their attempt.
"It is a source of strength to ask for help," Chandler told participants in a Suicide Stand Down roundtable discussion on the issue.
Terrie Williams, author of "Black Pain: It Just Looks Like We're Not Hurting," says the silence is destroying the African-American community.
As part of her recovery, she makes it her mission to ensure that people around her feel empowered to speak uncomfortable truths and get the professional help they need.
"
... And people commit slow suicide: They don't take their diabetes medication, or they go into enemy territory where they know they'll get shot."
Williams combats this with a packed touring schedule, addressing groups of African-American adolescents and professionals, speaking about her own experiences in an attempt to draw out people who may have experienced some of the same feelings and who may have never acknowledged it aloud -- let alone in front of a group of 700 people.
It was the first time they ever uttered it out loud, and as Williams says, "Each left there a different person."
CNN commenter mobustobus expressed a similar sentiment: "Emotional honesty is almost like a taboo in our society, but it's essential for healing depression.
The first time I did it, I felt alive in a way I had never before felt in my life.
Help yourself.
Military Suicide Hot line: 800-273-8255