(CNN) -- A Somali Islamist militant movement on Monday claimed responsibility for a trio of bombings that killed at least 74 people Sunday at two venues in the Ugandan capital, Kampala, where crowds had gathered to watch the World Cup final.
The 6,000 is an apparent reference to African Union peacekeepers in Somalia.
Rage said young suicide bombers carried out the attacks but did not specify their nationalities.
Earlier Monday, Sheikh Abu Al Zubeir, identified as "the emir of Al-Shabaab in Somalia," said in an Arabic website posting, "My message to the Ugandan and Burundian nations is that you will be the target for our retribution to the massacres perpetrated against the Somali men, women and children in Mogadishu by your forces."
All flags on public buildings will be lowered to half-staff during the mourning period, the statement said.
U.S.  officials said five Americans were among the wounded.
Kayihura said he could not confirm that Al-Shabaab was responsible, but said the nature of the explosives used were consistent with the group.
said Museveni, who on Monday visited a rugby sports center where two of the blasts occurred Sunday.
The second one at the rugby club was the most severe, said the official, who did not want to be identified because he was not authorized to speak to the media due to the sensitivity of the situation.
In a post on its website, the organization Invisible Children said Henn was in the country working with Ugandan students.
The State Department is assisting in their medical evacuation, he said.
Obama called Museveni on Monday morning and offered to provide support and assistance, White House spokesman Robert Gibbs said.
Museveni said, "We wish to condemn the criminality of these attacks.
"It happened toward the 90th minute of the game ... this loud explosion," he said.
"At that point, we ran off.
"I was watching the game with my brother at the rugby center," said Ian Lule, who was among a group gathered at a city hospital.
Muhumuza said when the game ended, he went to the rugby center.
"You can never stop attacks in the world," said FIFA President Sepp Blatter.
All the church members were accounted for and families had been contacted, Kind said.
Kayihura said the bombings could have been avoided if the two venues had used security measures such as metal detectors and guards.