In the meantime, they said, they were hoping the peace would hold.
"I think people feel now that the only way to push Israel to give concessions is resistance," said Ghazi Hamad, a senior Hamas official, who cited Israel's agreement to Wednesday's cease-fire as vindication of Hamas' struggle.
After the cease-fire ended the flareup between the Palestinians of Gaza and the Israel Defense Forces, Hamas can claim credit for extracting important concessions from Israel, including its promise to loosen Gaza's isolation from the outside world.
Israel's military also claimed success, saying on Wednesday that it had destroyed "significant elements" of Hamas' rocket-launching capabilities.
Palestinian leaders sought to cast the cease-fire as a catalyst toward uniting their divided factions, while Israelis said they were happy for quiet after the shelling and counterstrikes.
Haniyeh, who heads the governing party of Gaza, said the cease-fire showed the United States had been forced to soften its stance in the region in the wake of the Arab Spring.
"The victory of Gaza is a solid truth, not a phenomenon," Haniyeh said.
For the first time, Israel experienced rocket attacks from Gaza on its main cities of Tel Aviv and Jerusalem.
The report said Morsy's government had demonstrated pragmatism in negotiating the cease-fire and presented Israel and Hamas with the opportunity to reset expectations because it had credibility among Islamists.
Hamas' military wing, the al Qassam brigade, said it fired 1,573 rockets toward Israel during the hostilities, including three shot toward Jerusalem.
"You must remember, Hamas, unfortunately, is the enemy of peace," said the spokesman, Mark Regev.
At the same time, Regev said Israel has called on Palestinian leaders to restart peace talks and was hoping for a positive response soon.
Some said they would have preferred that Israel's military stage a ground invasion to destroy the militants' rocket capabilities.
Since the cease-fire was declared, three rockets have been launched from Gaza into Israel, the IDF said Thursday.
It also calls for the Palestinian factions to cease all hostilities from Gaza against Israel, including the firing of rockets and border attacks.
That's what we wanted," he said.
Israel said its intent was to end rocket attacks on southern Israel from inside Gaza by degrading Palestinian capabilities.