(CNN) -- Growing up, I wanted to be Too Tall Jones, the Hall of Fame defensive end for the Dallas Cowboys.
Too Tall was a superstar.
No pads.
Nobody worried about such nonsense.
It's obvious we need new rules to save the game and protect players.
You don't have to be a sports insider to understand that the tragic death of Junior Seau and the serious health problems of many retired NFL players demand changes in the way football is played.
More than ever before, parents are terrified of putting their boys on the field and, understandably, refuse to let their kids play football.
Even Obama, a big football fan, told The New Republic that if he had a son, he would "have to think long and hard" about whether he would let him play, because of the potential of getting injured.
said Paige Hockman, whose oldest boy was a star player at Vestavia Hills High, a public school outside of Birmingham, Alabama.
She understands well that even a small rule change, such as eliminating the kickoff, might cause a nationwide revolt.
It is a well-funded school district where most of the parents are college-educated, Hockman said.
"It's very different in Podunk, Alabama, schools, where parents and coaches are less educated and more concerned about winning than safety for the children," Hockman said.
But in order to save the game, and stop parents from steering their kids away from the gridiron, new rules are necessary.
Change may come from schools like Vestavia Hills High, or even from the Pop Warner organization, the nation's oldest youth football and cheerleading program, where an estimated 250,000 kids play football across the country.
The group has set limits on how long each player can stay in a game and how much contact is allowed during practices.
Butler envisions a time when brain scans will be mandatory each season for all children who want to play football.
Good luck selling those ideas to the NCAA or the NFL and its player unions -- or even some parents.
She might just become a superstar on her own field on the way to the Big Game.