Visit UWIRE.com to learn more.
Fifteen teams of students drove photovoltaic-powered cars across the North American Solar Challenge finish line in Calgary Tuesday, led by the University of Michigan Solar Car Team and its vehicle, Continuum.
Placing second was the car Ra 7 from Principia College, followed by the sole European finisher, the German FH Bochum Solar Car Team.
Bochum's car took about two hours more, but the University of Waterloo Midnight Sun Solar Car Team was a very close fourth, taking about fifteen minutes longer.
"It's unique, I think, for their college to field a team, (because) they don't have an engineering school," said Dan Eberle, NASC's organizer.
"The streets were lined with people," he said.
But that 20-minute stop was the only time it had to pull over to make repairs, which team members said was one reason they did so well.
Eberle said building a reliable car is "the first criteria" for a successful solar car team.
He noted that Michigan uses gallium arsenide multi-junction photovoltaic cells on their car.
Luke Martz, director of fundraising for Iowa State University's PrISUm Solar Car Team, said he thought the difference between the types of cells teams used had a major impact on the race.
Darshni Pillay, operations manager for the University of Calgary Solar Car Team, disagreed about the advantage provided by the gallium cells.
Pillay pointed out that Calgary's team, like PrISUm, had to tow its car when cloud cover was heavy in the early stages of the race.
Pillay pointed out that this year was only the second NASC her team has competed in, and said sixth is a big step up from their last finish.
Martz said the car had mechanical problems when it first arrived in Texas and so the team only got it on the track on the second day of a two-day qualifying process.
"If there's a team that's struggling," he said, "they're going to get help from whoever's available."
"Everyone's sympathetic to each other and wants to see all the other teams cross the finish line," she said.