The Cypriot parliament on Tuesday rejected a €10 billion eurozone bailout package due to investor alarm over a proposed tax on existing bank deposits as part of the rescue package.
In a March 16 statement on the agreement, the Eurogroup -- an informal body of eurozone finance ministers -- said the "current fragile situation of the Cypriot financial sector" was linked to its large size relative to the country's GDP.
So the big financial institutions like the Bank of Cyprus asked for a bailout from the government, and the government came to the EU in June 2012 saying it needed a bailout in turn.
Under the original Eurogroup proposal on March 16, all holders of bank accounts in Cyprus -- both residents and non-residents -- would have been required to pay a one-off tax on their existing deposits.
A government spokesman later said Cyprus' president had "fought hard" to exclude deposits of under €100,000 from the levy "which was imposed in order to blackmail Cyprus by those who are today trying to justify their own decisions."
On Tuesday, the Cypriot parliament soundly rejected a €10 billion bailout offer from the European Union because of public outcry over the proposed tax on bank deposits.
"Cyprus has a banking sector that is way too big and they are insolvent with that model and no one outside of Cyprus is at fault for that," Wolfgang Schaeuble said on German public broadcaster, ZDF.
In 2001, the IMF released a report on bank debit taxes that had been imposed in Latin America -- however, these taxes were on financial transactions not an outright grab as is being proposed in Cyprus.
At least 35 banks from around the world have branches in Cyprus, according to the country's central bank.
In an address to the nation on March 17, President Nicos Anastasiades said the bailout option was "very difficult" but one that would eventually lead to economic recovery in Cyprus.
Nearly a third of the money in Cyprus' banks is Russian, CNNMoney reported.
CNN's Ratlisa Vassileva said Russia's government was angry not to have been consulted on the proposal and its finance minister had said the issue would factor in any decision the country made on restructuring its multi-billion dollar loan to Cyprus.