(CNN) -- No one teaches reporters how to cover a war, much less wars that include genocide.
I learned what it means to bear witness.
I learned that there are limits to the style of journalism that goes: "On the one hand, on the other hand."
I have found that many people want to believe that I am exaggerating.
Many people now believe that if the extermination is not done on the Nazis' industrial scale or is less than complete, it is not genocide.
It means killing people not because of what they did, but because of who they are.
And sure enough, instead of using the convention as a springboard to action, political leaders in the ensuing years have invoked reason after reason not to stop the bloodshed.
What makes them do it?
And like Richard Holbrooke, a U.S. diplomat whose Jewish grandfather fled Germany when Hitler came to power, they see where action -- sometimes military action -- can make a difference.
Dallaire was one of those good men who put on a uniform and felt that it meant something, that he was actually there to make a difference.
How would we be able to live with ourselves?
In the 1970s, the Carter administration touted human rights as a core value in U.S. foreign policy, but knew that military intervention against the Khmer Rouge in Cambodia was politically inconceivable after the disastrous war in Vietnam.
And some U.S. officials even avoided characterizing the slaughter in Rwanda in 1994 as genocide lest it lead to a call for action under the U.N. Genocide Convention.
But three years into the Bosnian war -- after the massacre at Srebrenica -- the U.S. finally forged a coalition of previously reluctant allies to bomb the Bosnian Serb military positions.
And because we the press, the storytellers, finally made it impossible for our Western democratic governments to tolerate mass murder of men, women and children in the age of 24/7 satellite TV, 3½ years later, the U.S. led its allies in a pre-emptive strike against genocide in Kosovo.
And the question -- my question as a reporter and as a witness to history is: Will we ever learn?
So thank goodness for the few good men and women who summon the courage to do something in the face of evil, to stand up and confront it.