The plea deal may include prison time, but the NFL has not yet decided what football sanctions, if any, it should impose on Vick, a spokesman said.
Stephanie King of Arlington, Washington Michael Vick is a disgrace.
One cannot be "sorry" for torturing and killing animals.
Patricia Reese of Paola, Kansas Yes, I think Mr. Vick should be allowed to play football again.
Debbie Clayton of Greensboro, North Carolina He should never be allowed to play [in the] NFL or earn a dime associated with the NFL.
Smoking pot is against the law, but he's been given a number of chances, and STILL isn't banned from the NFL!
Josh Hebert of Loganville, Georgia He should take whatever punishment our government gives him, but when he has done his time (if he does do time) he should be able to continue playing football.
Angela Ziegler of Cleveland, Ohio The NFL needs to "step up to the plate" and be the man that Michael Vick is not.
Unless we make a policy that all players who are convicted of a felony are banned from the league, then Vick should be allowed to play after a suspension.
Bill Saray of Derby, Connecticut Vick should never play again.
Playing in the NFL is not a right.
I believe Mr. Vick's NFL playing days should be determined by the NFL commissioner with consideration of the NFL's personal conduct policy.
Everyone is equal regardless of popularity, fame, and race.
Vick ... committed a felony and now he has to pay for it.
Leah Perry of Chelmsford, Massachusetts I don't think Vick should be allowed to play football, nor should he get off easy.
I do not think he should be banned for life.
I don't think he deserves to play ever again.
I applaud the people sending Michael Vick jerseys into the Atlanta Humane Society to use cleaning the kennels, now that's appropriate!
What kind of message would we be sending to them if we were to let him play in the NFL again?
He's through.
John Brandon of Old Hickory, Tennessee To make a long story short -- my family will never watch a game with Michael Vick in attendance.