The controversial issue of team orders in Formula 1 has once again tested respect between teammates -- and ahead of Sunday's race Vettel said he would probably do it again given he felt Webber had not supported him in the past -- and raised question marks over the purity of the sport's racing.
The willingness to accept team orders often relies on a tacit understanding between the drivers, on their status within the team and how the race will be run.
"I don't think there's the same respect now for other drivers," British racing legend Stirling Moss told CNN.
During his F1 career between 1951-60, Moss would only sign contracts that named him as the team's number one driver.
"When a team had the lead, the number one driver would hold position and not pass him, says Moss.
"Because (Red Bull) had specifically said to (Vettel) let Webber have it, that made him a naughty boy but he felt, 'well dammit, why shouldn't I win?'
On the other side of the garage, the Malaysia team orders drama may have more emotional, career-defining consequences for Webber, whose Red Bull contract expires at the end of the season.
"The year before in Austria I had let Michael by when I was second and he was third and I had that conversation with the team afterwards when I said: 'Listen, what would happen if I was first?'
"It was very hard, it was absolutely very, very hard.
That career-defining moment for Barrichello also led to a decision by the sport's governing body, the FIA, to ban team orders that directly affected the outcome of a race.
Team orders have always existed in F1 because, in simple terms, teams also want to be happy -- and that often means making money.
"The team has always been the most important thing," said Moss.
"But once you're with a company you really have to do what they tell you to.
"I don't think drivers accept that," says Barrichello.
"I suppose he was a naughty boy," Moss says, "but he is a racing driver who's paid to go fast.
Vettel, Webber and Red Bull will begin to find out how much crossing that line in Malaysia has hurt them when they reunite in Shanghai.