The man identified as Suspect 2 was seen setting down a backpack at the site of the second explosion "within minutes" of the blasts that killed three people and wounded nearly 180, said Special Agent Rick DesLauriers, the head of the FBI's Boston office.
"Somebody out there knows these individuals as friends, neighbors, co-workers or family members of the suspects," DesLauriers said.
By Thursday evening, authorities already had received a "large volume of calls ... as a result of the photos," an FBI official said.
"No one should approach them," he said.
"When the bombs blow up, when most people are running away and victims were lying on the ground, the two suspects walk away pretty casually," said the official, who has seen the unreleased video.
The investigation also turned toward the possibility that the bombs had been detonated by remote control, a federal law enforcement official briefed on the investigation said Thursday.
The FBI has said details of the detonating system were unknown.
"Every one of us stands with you," Obama told the crowd.
Addressing the still-unknown perpetrators, Obama added: "Yes, we will find you.
And he looked ahead to next year's race, predicting that "the world will return to this great American city to run even harder and to cheer even louder for the 118th Boston Marathon.
Obama also stopped at a high school to thank a group of first responders and volunteers and met with patients recovering from the attacks at Massachusetts General Hospital.
The first lady met with patients, families and hospital staff at Boston Children's Hospital and Brigham and Women's Hospital, the White House said.
One device was housed in a pressure cooker hidden inside a backpack, the FBI said.
The second bomb was in a metal container, but it was unclear whether it was in a pressure cooker as well, the FBI said.
• Lu, the Chinese graduate student at Boston University who had moved to the city last fall, making friends and soaking up new experiences.
The U.S. State Department has been in contact with her family and the Chinese Foreign Ministry, Secretary of State John Kerry said in a statement released Thursday.