Living with limb loss requires a certain toughness.
As tragic and violent as the circumstances of their injuries were, the 14 people who lost arms, legs, hands or feet as a result of the attack represent a fraction of who undergo amputation in the United States on any given day -- roughly 500 people, according to figures from the Amputee Coalition, the nation's largest limb loss advocacy and support group.
By 2011, Chenoweth had been dealing with her own limb loss for nearly eight years.
There is also a Facebook contest for people to share pictures of themselves in public with the absence of their limbs evident.
"I was astounded that so many people aren't living their lives out of fear of what other people are going to think," she says.
"People are afraid of what they don't know," says Anissa Gustafson.
"I remember walking into my children's classroom and all the little kids tilting their heads sideways, like they were looking for the rest of my leg," she says.
No longer able to wear shoes with a heel higher than two inches, she had to get rid of 40 pairs of shoes and adapt her signature style to work with her new prosthetic -- a "realistic" model that cost her $20,000.
"I don't see it as being ashamed of my leg," she says.
Over the past two years, Strut Your Stuff has inspired people to go out in their community for the first time without a cosmetic cover, reveal to co-workers that they're living with a prosthetic, or even leave the confines of their own homes, which they hadn't done since their limb loss.
But she says the acceptance of her limb loss came about without fanfare one day when she realized what she had been missing.
• If people stare at you, look back and smile.
• Do not define yourself by your lost limb.
• It is natural to feel repulsed upon first seeing the absence of a limb, even when it's a loved one or romantic partner.
Peggy Chenoweth has some advice for those who may have questions for people with limb loss.
• For goodness' sakes, don't make fun.
• Don't tell them what they "should" be doing.
Are you or someone you love dealing with limb loss?