I don't want to hurt my children," the Chinese woman told CNN Wednesday as she waited in Kuala Lumpur for evidence about what happened to her husband and the 238 others who were aboard Malaysia Airlines Flight 370.
I can't work now because all I can think about is my husband and my children," she told CNN's Sara Sidner in Kuala Lumpur.
Malaysian officials say they can tell you how Flight 370 ended.
Steve Wang, whose mother was aboard the flight, told reporters he felt there was "no evidence" that the passenger jet crashed in the Indian Ocean.
"They have been hiding the truth," she said.
Malaysia Airlines says it is giving the families all the information it can and is sharing it as quickly as possible.
That investigation now focuses on an area of the southern Indian Ocean off Australia's west coast, where authorities believe the plane went down after a long, odd, unexplained flight that should have ended hours before in Beijing.
Commercial satellite data from a U.S. company, first analyzed by Australian officials, as well as satellite data from China and France, have turned up evidence of debris bobbing in the general area where authorities believe the plane went down.
After bad weather halted the hunt for a day, searching resumed Wednesday, the Australian Maritime Safety Authority said.
"It's a pretty remote area and weather conditions can get very, very bad, very, very quickly," said Neil Bennett of the Australian Bureau of Meteorology.
Twelve aircraft will be part of the search, Australian officials said.
"With eight hours of flying to and from the search region, the fleet of P-3 Orion aircraft and other military aircraft have only a precious few hours to scour the search tracks they have been given," Australian Defence Minister David Johnston said.
More than half a million square kilometers (193,000 square miles) have been searched to date, Australian authorities said.
He said the analysis was based on sophisticated mathematics calculating how long it took signals from a transmitter on the plane to reach an orbiting Inmarsat communications satellite.
The analysis shows that the plane didn't answer a ping from the satellite ground station at 9:15 a.m. (8:15 p.m.
That partial ping could be a key detail that helps investigators unravel what happened, experts said Tuesday.
It involves agencies with "expertise in satellite communications and aircraft performance," he said.
The Malaysian government's announcement was met with anger by relatives, many of whom said it was premature to declare their loved ones dead before locating any wreckage or bodies.
Malaysian authorities followed up with briefings for families in Beijing and Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
Malaysian officials said they are doing all they can.
Malaysia Airlines said Tuesday it has offered family members financial support of $5,000 for each passenger aboard the ill-fated flight and was preparing to make additional payments as the prolonged search continues.
And that those families will now have to live on without those they love."