New York (CNN) -- Jazz master Wynton Marsalis says the blues is the true American music -- the heartbeat and unifying principle of jazz, country, R&B, gospel and other styles -- but it's been relegated to the back of the bus by greed and the legacy of racism.
Marsalis plays classical and jazz music with equal mastery.
Marsalis says that's because of racism -- it was the music of a whole people granted only secondary status -- and its inability to make a lot of money.
CNN: You have a DVD out called "Willie Nelson and Wynton Marsalis Play the Music of Ray Charles."
It's in New Orleans music, it's in jazz, it's in country music, it's in gospel.
He and Willie Nelson came 'round in young manhood at a time in the late '40s early 1950s when all of the American music, root music, was all combined.
It was on the R&B charts, it was on the country charts, it was No.
MARSALIS: Money and racism.
MARSALIS: It came from who we didn't like.
MARSALIS: They didn't appreciate it.
That's part of the whole kind of self-hatred that comes from that type of slavery that the black American still labors under.
MARSALIS: No question.
...
In the aftermath of slavery ... there was a retrenching, and [it turned into] the type of racism that was experienced by people who came to the North.
MARSALIS: The blues was like a solution to that, an antidote to it.
MARSALIS: It is America.
That's how the blues is, that's why it fits with everything, country-western, bluegrass -- everybody's playing the same music.
MARSALIS: We have to have an overall cultural objective, which we don't have.
And that's the main thing our music, and the history of our music, can teach us as a nation.
It sounds like you got a lot of your ideas about integrity from him.
From him.
... We'd go to his gig, there'd be six people.
We were playing a dance at a high school, he didn't know any of the music, but he played all of the music we had.
I'd bring people to see him.
MARSALIS: The main three components are the blues, improvisation -- which is some kind of element that people are trying to make it up -- and swing, which means even though they're making up music, they're trying to make it up together.