If you're Antoinette Tuff, who works in the front office at Ronald E. McNair Discovery Learning Academy just outside Atlanta, you don't run.
And then the nightmare ends with the suspect, later identified as Michael Brandon Hill, taken into custody and no one inside or outside the Decatur school even hurt, despite the gunfire.
"He doesn't want the kids, he wants the police, so back off," she said in the call.
By the end -- with police themselves having never directly talked to him -- Tuff and the gunman were talking about where he would put his weapon, how he'd empty his pockets and where he'd lie down before authorities could get him.
"I just want you to know I love you, though, OK?
He could, too.
That day, for everyone at that school, everything did turn out OK.
This ending is thanks largely to Tuff, said McCray, the woman who fielded her 911 call.
School staff regularly train for dangerous situations involving trespassers and emergency protocol, school district spokesman Quinn Hudson said.
"Her name, Antoinette Tuff, says everything about her," said Brian Bolden, the school principal.
Tuff was scheduled to be off that day, but because of a shift change, she ended up right where the school needed her to be.
Counseling was made available to the kids, and the school understands that some children might not be ready to come back right away, he said.
Police spokeswoman Mekka Parish has said they would include aggravated assault on a police officer, terroristic threats and possession of a firearm by a convicted felon.
Whenever the charges come down, Hill will waive his initial court appearance, said Claudia Saari, public defender for the Stone Mountain Judicial Circuit.
But that county's district attorney, James Wright, said Wednesday that there's no indication that Hill completed them.
Being from DeKalb County, Hill "possibly had been there (at the school) before speaking with some people in the administration," Davis said.
"He entered a school, an elementary school with children in it ... to do one of two things: Either to do harm to those children and/or any first responders."
While he fired some rounds at police -- and one officer shot back at him -- no one was hit outside either.
Community members and leaders are offering praise for Tuff and police, as well as gratitude that the story did not turn tragic.