A 30-foot tract of red clay and splotchy crab grass separates her mobile home from the home of Raymond Daniel Thurmond, a residence so rank and squalid that it forced a seasoned police investigator to vomit upon entering.
Savage and her neighbors say they had no clue that Thurmond, 36, had a wife, let alone four kids; they were also oblivious that Thurmond may have held the five hostage in the three-bedroom mobile home for three years.
Thurmond kindly told Savage he hadn't seen anything suspicious.
She occasionally saw Thurmond mingling with other tenants, but she never saw his family.
"I never saw them outside, never," she said.
Lt. Missy Collins, the investigator who had Thurmond arrested Tuesday after a two-week investigation, said her husband used to work with Thurmond at a pump-manufacturing facility in nearby Toccoa.
"You never saw anybody with him," the chief said.
"They said they had a mother and four kids, and apparently they'd been kept at home, and there was some abuse allegations and the dad wouldn't let them leave," Collins said.
Collins said police are not sure if padlocks were the only way Thurmond imprisoned his family.
Watch Collins explain how Thurmond instilled fear »
It is unclear by whom.
Collins said she is not certain exactly what emboldened the family to flee the filthy trailer, but the mother told police that Thurmond had said he was leaving her for another woman.
On August 6, after Thurmond hadn't responded to a notice on his door threatening eviction, Medina sent her maintenance man to the mobile home.
He returned disturbed and told Medina he hadn't entered the home, she said.
Heavy, brown stains covered both toilets.
Collins said she went behind an adjacent mobile home and vomited when she and another officer first opened the door.
Collins said she had never experienced such a stench -- this from a police investigator who as recently as last week rode in an ambulance with a corpse that had been pulled from a burning building.
As of Thursday morning, Thurmond still didn't have an attorney and no bail hearing had been set, Collins said.
" Collins said.