Lebanon had maintained relative stability despite the full-tilt civil war that has torn apart its largest neighbor and former military occupier, Syria, for more than a year and a half.
Many in Lebanon immediately suspected al-Assad's regime in the assassination.
Lebanon's army made an unprecedented move by issuing a statement demanding that politicians order their supporters to calm down.
Lawmakers who are most opposed to Syria's influence inside Lebanon -- mostly through its Lebanese ally, Hezbollah -- are now calling for the government's resignation.
Lebanese officials said there was no doubt al-Hassan was the target of the attack.
Al-Hassan may have been targeted because he was leading an investigation into a Lebanese politician, Michel Samaha, who is accused of working with two Syrian officials to plan attacks inside Lebanon.
Hezbollah is also an Iran-backed paramilitary group deemed a terrorist organization by the United States, whose agents inside Lebanon were indicted by the United Nations for Hariri's assassination.
Hezbollah, experts say, is popular inside Lebanon because it has managed to do what the Lebanese government at large has failed to pull off: efficiently provide cradle-to-grave services.
Hezbollah was created in 1982 to oppose Israel's occupation of Lebanon.
That has not stopped it from amassing substantial political power inside Lebanon, according to author and journalist Thanassis Cambanis.
Iran and Syria support Hezbollah's ideology.
Against what?
Most of the protesters are allied with Sunni coalitions that have long been sharply critical of the Lebanese government's perceived closeness with the Syrian regime, blaming Mitaki for not preventing Friday's deadly car bomb.
The major concern for Lebanon is that Syria's troubles will reopen the wounds of Lebanon's 15-year-long civil war, which ended in 1990.
The core of the Syrian president's support in Lebanon is in the southern part of the country.
"There's been an assumption for several years that the Lebanese people are fed up and exhausted with civil war," Phillips said.