Will Michael Schumacher ever recover from the serious head injury he suffered in a skiing accident six months ago?
As the months have stretched on since the accident, so has the reluctance to openly discuss the state of Schumacher's health within the sport's inner circle.
The only thing I want is that the recovery takes as quick as possible and to see him here with us."
"It's very positive to hear but, like I said, it's been many, many weeks and months since the incident and obviously you find yourself busy in Formula One thinking about a lot of things.
"The policy of the family is to keep everything very, very private.
"What tortures the public is the same thing that tortures the family --progress is slow, progress is uncertain," said Peter Hamlyn, a consultant neurological and spinal surgeon and expert in the field of head injuries in sport.
"It's a rollercoaster and if Michael Schumacher's rollercoaster takes him and his family somewhere happy then they will have been to places that will have been pretty unhappy on the way there.
Hamlyn speaks from a very public, personal experience following his successful high-profile treatment of brain-damaged boxer Michael Watson.
"I would take that as a hopeful sign.
"The thing about supreme athletes like Michael Watson and Michael Schumacher is that they have extraordinary physical reserves," Hamlyn said.
"I think that does come from the sort of tenacity, reserve and determination that you have to have if you're to get to the top of any world sport.
"You have to keep changing the challenge, just moving it a little bit further forward so they relearn and regain their abilities as best they can.
Nico Rosberg has recently commented to the German media that he witnessed Schumacher's famous mental resolve throughout three years as his Mercedes teammate and hopes this will guide the former champion through the next stage of his rehabilitation.
For the watching world, it is difficult to know how far Schumacher has come on his journey since the accident and how far there is to go.
"One day, some months into this business, Muhammad Ali came to see him at the hospital," recalled Hamlyn.
The world waits to see whether Schumacher, the ruthless racer, the sport's record-breaking world champion, can once again be his own inspiration.