(CNN) -- It's been six years -- 2007, if you're into counting numbers -- since the once sleepy fishing port of Macau surpassed Las Vegas as the world leader in gambling revenue.
Here's a primer.
Macau is the gambling capital of the world.
Tycoon Stanley Ho's 40-year reign as the city's casino kingpin came to an end in 2002 when the Macau government ended the monopoly system.
The Portuguese settled in Macau in the 16th century and the island was handed back to China in 1999.
Macau has the world's highest population density with 20,497 people per square kilometer.
This gave Macau an extra 5.2 square kilometers to create a gambling mecca to rival Las Vegas.
The Venetian Resort, City of Dreams, Sands Cotai and Galaxy Macau Resort are all on the Cotai Strip.
The most southern island, Coloane, remains wonderfully untouched by the casino craziness.
Another Coloane favourite is Fernando's.
Before the big casino operators rolled into town the Macau government did something clever -- it applied to UNESCO for World Heritage status.
6.
Macanese cuisine is unique to Macau and combines the best of Chinese and Portuguese ingredients and cooking along with influences from Brazil, Goa and other former Portuguese colonies.
7.
Wan Kuok-koi was born in Macau's slums and worked his way up triads.
Macau changed dramatically while he was in prison and the swathe of new monster casinos has totally transformed the city.
People in Macau live a long time -- an average of 84.4 years.
This year Macau was named the world's second fastest growing economy (after Mongolia) and more than 50% of Macau's revenue comes from gambling.
One in five locals work in a casino
New regulations brought in early this year means that 50% of a casino floor must be non-smoking.
The massive open plan Venetian Macau -- the largest casino floor in the world -- uses a smart ventilation system that creates areas of low and high pressure to ensure that the smoke is drawn up into air vents.
It's on the southeast side of Coloane Island.
Read the policy.