In November of last year, 19-year-old Aqsa Mahmood gave her father, Muzaffar, a long hug goodbye.
Four days later, Aqsa called her parents back in Scotland, just as she was crossing into Syria from its border with Turkey.
Her father says when he spoke to her about coming home, she said that she would see her family on Judgment Day and would like to be a martyr.
"There was nothing they (Aqsa's parents) could have done different.
Aqsa is said to be influenced by watching sermons online and coming in contact with people through social media that helped her make the trek from Glasgow to Syria.
They went to the prestigious private school Craigholme down the road.
We just don't know what happened to her.
But when the civil war in Syria flared, Aqsa grew increasingly concerned about the violence.
But her parents did not suspect anything extreme.
Khalida says her daughter was afraid of the dark and didn't even know what bus to take downtown, much less how to cross the border into Syria.
I can't believe this," Khalida tearfully says, explaining the shock the family feels about her daughter's decision.
"I know she is my daughter, but I feel that she is my friend.
Soon after her arrival in Syria, Aqsa told her family that she would marry.
Now we have to find a mahram (male guardian).
"We used to tell her ... this is not Islam, some of these groups are not Islam.
In one of the exchanges Muzaffar had with his daughter, she told him that she is praying every day to become "shahid," or a martyr.
The family hopes and prays that Aqsa will come home.
In a special message to Aqsa through CNN, her parents made a personal appeal to their daughter.
Looking directly into the camera, Khalida said, "Aqsa, my dear daughter, please come back.
My dear daughter, in the name of Allah, please come back.
I love you, my dear daughter.
That's what we have been taught by our prophet -- peace be upon him," Muzaffar says.
Both parents are worried that time is running out for Aqsa to safely return home.