(CNN) -- The agreement between President Barack Obama and President Xi Jinping of China to reduce greenhouse gas emissions is the most important advance in the several decades-long history of international climate negotiations.
One is that the agreement doesn't do enough to solve the problem of global warming.
The argument here is that the emissions cuts will not be enough to limit the global mean surface temperature increase to 2 degrees Celsius, the benchmark beyond which climate change will be "dangerous," according to the nonbinding international agreement reached in Copenhagen in 2009.
Or -- or better, and -- we need Earth's climate sensitivity (how much warming we'll get for a given level of greenhouse gas increases) not to be at the high end of the range that the best current science, with its attendant uncertainties, has it.
Further, while we need goals, and 2C is an important one, we have to understand that we don't get to give up if we miss them.
The argument here is that Obama had already committed to cuts putting us along the trajectory in the agreement until 2020 (with the EPA regulation of carbon dioxide as a pollutant and the new rules on power plants) and has now just extended the same trajectory to 2025.
It will take real political capital for Obama, or any future U.S. president, to fight off the attacks of the deniers and fossil fuel industry shills.
The Montreal Protocol didn't happen because politicians found a way to force recalcitrant factions in government and industry to go along with it.
They were not just ready to accept the protocol's restrictions; they were looking forward to selling a whole lot of new air conditioners and refrigerators.
If the United States and China had reached an agreement now that everyone could agree was definitely enough to keep us below 2C -- despite the political challenges, the technical challenges and the possibility of a more rather than less sensitive climate -- it would have been at best highly aspirational, at worst simply unrealistic.
The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Adam Sobel.