"I was right behind David and the careers officer said 'So Mr. David Jones, what is it you are planning to do when you leave school?'
I laughed my head off after that because they didn't know how to pigeon hole people and they went down the category of music careers and he said 'I've got an interview for a job at a harp factory in Bromley' -- that's the nearest thing they had to music which I thought was hilarious."
Frampton's son Peter joined the school three years after George and David and was soon in search of musical companions.
But David liked the image of the big shoulder pads and there was a certain glamor about the way they looked and he thought I'll get into American football."
George says David convinced him that the girl wouldn't turn up for the meeting.
I knew David wouldn't fight me and I was so annoyed I just went like that."
"Oh God my stomach was turning," says Underwood.
George and David played together in bands such as The Kon-rads and The King Bees but it was George who scored the first hit recording under the name Calvin James.
That's when David Jones -- now performing as David Bowie -- took his first big step towards stardom.
George quit music to focus on art and David asked him to work on three of his most famous album covers -- "David Bowie," "Hunky Dory" and "Ziggy Stardust and the Spiders from Mars."
After achieving huge success as a solo artist -- "Frampton Comes Alive" remains one of the best-selling live albums in music history -- Peter Frampton suffered a series of setbacks which left his career in tatters, until David invited him to record and tour with him in the 1980s.
Peter went on to win a Grammy for his 2006 album "Fingerprints" while George has developed a career in painting which has included exhibitions at London's prestigious Royal Academy.
"A lot of people have copied what he has done, in terms of re-inventing himself all the time, just when you think he's got him figured out," says Frampton.
But he's the same guy I went to school with."