(CNN) -- Don Black said he despises Barack Obama.
The center's report, "The Year in Hate,"  found the number of hate groups grew by 54 percent since 2000.
"We fear these conditions will favor the growth of these groups in the future," said Mark Potok, director of the Southern Poverty Law Center's Intelligence Project.
On the day after Obama's historic election, more than 2,000 people joined his Web site, a remarkable increase from the approximately 80 new members a day he was getting, Black said.
"People who had been a little more complacent and kind of upset became more motivated to do something," said Black, who also said he joined his first hate group at age 15.
Most of the hate groups are located in the South, but the state with the highest number of documented hate groups is California with 84.
Two weeks before Obama won, authorities said they foiled a skinhead plot to assassinate him.
White supremacist groups have gained traction, a reversal from the decline the groups experienced since 2000, according to the law center report.
Immigrants are another target of hate groups, according to the report.
In a deteriorating economy, illegal immigrants have been blamed by hate groups for allegedly taking subprime loans, according to the report.
Schoep said he has seen membership grow by 40 percent in recent months, mostly because of the dire economic circumstances.
Experts studying hate crimes say there is no reliable way to link the growing number of hate groups with an increase in hate crimes, since many of the attacks go unreported.
Some hate groups such as the National Socialist Movement do not publicly condone violence or terrorist acts.
Dr. Alvin F. Poussaint, a professor of psychiatry at Harvard Medical School who studied the issue of hate crimes, said people in hate groups can feel paranoid about a specific group of people.
Alternately, individuals in a hate group may sometimes transplant their own personal rage onto a particular group that has no real connection to the cause of that rage, he said.