The four men were killed in an attack this week on the U.S. Consulate in Benghazi.
But he pledged that "the United States of America will never retreat from the world."
"We will bring to justice those who took them from us," Obama said.
We owe it to the these four men to continue the long, hard work of diplomacy," Clinton said.
The fourth was Sean Smith, an information management officer who also had an online alter-ego legendary in the gaming world.
Four people have been arrested in connection with the attack that left Stevens and the three other Americans dead, the top aide to the president of the Libyan parliament said Friday.
Authorities also believe the attack was planned and deliberately carried out to inflict maximum damage on key Western interests, particularly the United States, he said.
State Department Under Secretary Patrick Kennedy has said that the attack appeared to be planned because it was so extensive and because of the "proliferation" of small and medium weapons at the scene.
But on Thursday, three U.S. officials told CNN that they had seen no evidence the attack was premeditated.
To those that would do us harm -- no act of terror will go unpunished.
During an interview on CNNI's "Amanpour," Abushagur said Thursday that there had been one arrest early Thursday in Benghazi and that three or four others were being pursued.
Given what officials know about al Qaeda in Libya, intelligence officials believe it is very unlikely that core al Qaeda was behind the attack, a U.S. intelligence official told CNN on condition of anonymity.
Meanwhile, Shawn Turner, director of communications for U.S. National Intelligence, denied news reports that American officials had been warned of a possible attack.
The jihadists suspected in Tuesday night's attack "are a very small minority" who are taking advantage of a fledgling democracy, said Ali Suleiman Aujali, the Libyan ambassador to the United States.
"Due process violations against detainees in Libya are the norm," Human Rights Watch said in a June report.
At the same time, the dominance of militia groups, "which in most towns and cities are stronger than the army and police, has complicated the rebuilding of Libya's justice system," the report says.
As the fire spread, three people -- Stevens, Foreign Service information management officer Smith, and a U.S. regional security officer -- were inside a safe room, said senior State Department officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity as a matter of practice during a briefing with reporters.
The State Department has not released details about how Stevens died, though numerous media reports have said the ambassador was taken from the consulate to the Benghazi Medical Center by locals.
Share your images but stay safe.