Crockett had been admitted to Charity's inpatient mental health unit after having a psychotic episode.
"Most of the time, I was in a fog, but I do remember some things," Crockett said.
"Four years later, everything is not all right in New Orleans," said Dr. Jan Johnson, a psychiatrist who treats Crockett.
A report about mental health issues in New Orleans after Katrina, published in early 2008 in the journal Psychiatric Annals, lists the number of inpatient psychiatric beds in greater New Orleans at 487 before the storm.
"Patients are not getting care, they are sitting in emergency rooms for days, and that's just an inappropriate place for psychiatric patients."
After leaving the clinic, Crockett bounced among three local hospitals before being transported to the closest medical center with an available psychiatric bed, several hours outside of New Orleans.
"I can remember being in the back of an ambulance, and I kept thinking, 'This is taking so long,' " Crockett said.
And the consequences of not finding a bed for acutely ill patients can be deadly.
In January 2008, a New Orleans police officer was killed by a man suffering from psychosis due to schizophrenia, New Orleans police said.
Months after Cotton's death, Louisiana allotted millions of dollars to bolster mental health services in New Orleans, he said.
Abramson is fighting to get back critical inpatient beds.
"That's why this is so critical," Abramson said.
"This is the only state-operated mental health facility left in New Orleans.
Levine called the debate about NOAH and inpatient beds among New Orleans caregivers and legislators symbolic of overall frustration with mental health care in the area, adding that Louisiana is focusing funding on community-based services, rather than inpatient beds, a strategy that he says will eventually shore up New Orleans' mental health system.
We can manage a lot of this outpatient and community-based, but when they have an acute psychiatric episode or they are suicidal, they need an inpatient bed."
Crockett said.
If I want the help that I so desperately need, I can't get it because it's not there."