(CNN) -- Former U.S. Marine Dan Hottle knew he had found his dream job at Yellowstone National Park.
"Where I had just come from was so austere," he said.
Hottle is one of many military veterans who have worked for the National Park Service and at Yellowstone, the nation's first national park, established in 1872.
"It's pretty rural and only packed with visitors in the summer," he said.
"Nature is what's driving life here," he said.
"I saw an injured bison on the road, and I know it's going to be food for a grizzly bear later this afternoon.
Park stats: Yellowstone National Park was the fourth-most-visited national park (PDF) in 2012, with 3.4 million visitors last year.
Although Yellowstone is open year-round, just one road from Cooke City, Montana, to Mammoth Hot Springs, Wyoming, is plowed in winter.
While Old Faithful Geyser is the big draw for first-time visitors to Yellowstone, it can take the whole day to enjoy and get around the geyser basin where it's located.
"I think it's the prettiest part of the park," Hottle said.
"The vibrancy of the colors around the spring are created by natural bacteria," Hottle said.
It's in the northeast corner of the park, just outside Lamar Valley and near Cooke City, Montana.
"It's where we see the most wildlife," he said.
Early in the morning or later in the evening, when he's driving the only car on the road, Hottle likes to stop at a pullout about halfway to Lamar Valley, where he can sometimes hear wolves howling.
As the sun was setting, "I sat down on a rock to look at the water, heard a snorting noise and saw a five-point bull elk swim out into the water in front of me," he said.
Hottle watched the elk swim to the side of the lake and climb out of the water.
"You can drive around for two weeks and not see a bear, and then three show up in my front yard," he said.
"We have so many vehicle accidents here because (people) are trying to see the whole thing through their windshields while they're driving," Hottle said.
Instead, stop in pullouts and park your car to admire the spectacular natural landscape.
"Female elk with calves can take people out," Hottle said.
"It's just spectacular," he said.
What national park would you like to visit?