The declaration by Holder came in a letter to a federal appeal's court that had ordered the government to respond by Thursday in a legal and political spat over the health care law championed by President Barack Obama.
Obama and the White House have since attempted to clarify the president's initial comments, which were in response to a reporter's question about the Supreme Court's three days of hearings on the health care law last week.
The dispute involving the court and the executive branch has highlighted the political dispute over whether the health care law will survive various legal challenges, including the pending Supreme Court decision on the constitutionality of a key provision.
A day after the president's initial remarks, the three Republican-appointed appellate judges held a hearing on a challenge to the health care law from physician-owned hospitals.
So I want to be sure that you're telling us that the attorney general and the Department of Justice do recognize the authority of the federal courts through unelected judges to strike acts of Congress or portions thereof in appropriate cases."
Holder's letter Thursday offered repeated deference to the power of the federal courts.
"First, Holder (in the letter) says that we have an argument courts can't hear this case.
"It's a respectful letter, but it has an element of, 'What are you talking about, the president never said that.'
"
"The point I was making is that the Supreme Court is the final say on our Constitution and our laws, and all of us have to respect it, but it's precisely because of that extraordinary power that the court has traditionally exercised significant restraint and deference to our duly elected legislature, our Congress," Obama said.
"The independence of the court must be defended.
Carney said it was "preposterous" to suggest Obama does not respect the power of courts to rule on the constitutionality of legislation.
"It was like he (the judge) was giving a homework assignment to an unprepared student," said one right-leaning lawyer, who opposes the health care law.
The Supreme Court held three days of oral arguments on the health care last week.