Like many public schools, his doesn't provide cups.
"Since children spend a large percent of their waking hours at school, they should be consuming at least one-half their total water intake at school," says Dr. Melina Jampolis, CNNHealth's Diet and Fitness Expert.
"Mild dehydration can affect learning as well as mental and physical performance."
According to the new federal law, school districts will have to provide water in student eating areas, but the law doesn't discuss accessibility.
Vista Middle School outside Los Angeles has approximately 1,700 students and four water fountains in the student eating area.
Chicago Public Schools do not.
Broward County Public Schools, in Fort Lauderdale, says drinking cups aren't provided unless a student asks for one.
Hillsborough County school district in Tampa says it does not provide cups of water and there is usually one water fountain in student eating areas.
According to the California Food Policy Advocates, filling cups is "likely a slow process at most water fountains."
It's called a water intervention -- a five-week research program that includes a water filter and cups for five schools in the Los Angeles school district, provided free from the UCLA/RAND project.
The test includes these steps: Install a water filter in the school.
"We've seen students really gravitate towards the water out here and fill up their cups right before and after lunch to hydrate" says Burt Cowgill, the project manager.
Free drinking water and cups could also decrease revenue from bottled water sales.
Researchers in Germany found that by installing a cooled, filtered water fountain with plain or optionally carbonated water, providing children with water bottles, educating them on the importance of drinking water and encouraging them to fill up their water bottles, they were able to reduce the risk of children becoming overweight by 31%.
David Binkle, deputy director of Los Angeles school district food services, would like the federal government to help pay for water instead of only mandating that water be made available.
"I wouldn't really drink water because it's sort of hard to be eating your meal and then stop and go drink water at the water fountain," she said.
At Vista Middle School, Principal Nidia Castro says she will do her best to keep cups of water in her school, even suggesting she might pay out-of-pocket to provide cups for her students.
"I see how much the kids really like the water," she says.