(CNN) -- Foxconn, the high-profile electronics company that builds Apple's iPhone and other products in China, is back in the headlines after workers rioted at its Taiyaun factory.
Although employees at Apple and Foxconn are treated very differently, the two companies are known for keeping their workers and others in the dark.
One meaning of openness refers to transparency, with a company making available pertinent information to stakeholders such as customers, employees, business partners and shareholders.
I believe a company can benefit by sharing some of its intellectual property given the right conditions.
To begin, Apple is more transparent than one might think.
Apple is obviously super-secretive with its customers about product announcements.
And as Apple continues to lag well behind Android in market share, eventually it will be forced to be more open with consumers, as well.
Apple's customers aren't alone in being kept in the dark; the company treats its employees the same way.
But increasingly Apple pays a price for this employee secrecy.
In terms of its supply chain, Apple itself has huge transparency and visibility.
This is an enormous problem for Apple, not just for its reputation, but also the disruptions such working conditions can cause in the supply chain.
Foxconn promised to improve conditions, and Apple said "We think empowering workers and helping them understand their rights is essential.")
It is a design and marketing company at the heart of an enormous business web of suppliers and software developers -- based on openness.
Open-source software stimulates creativity and attracts attention, and over time openness tends to win out in the market.
Apple also has failed miserably in terms of sharing within society and the global community.
With Tim Cook now having been CEO for a year, Apple seems to be increasingly aware that in the long term, business cannot succeed in a world that's failing.
Such a bold move would benefit everyone, including shareholders, and Apple could be positioned to dominate some important emerging markets.
And increasingly as it comes under more intense competitive pressures, Apple will need to become an even more open company.