(CNN) -- The dog photos are difficult to view.
That thought alone -- that someone would sit in a public restaurant and order dog from a menu -- is likely enough to get most "dog people" to stop reading this column, much less look at the photo essay featured this week by CNN's photo blog.
The images featured on the CNN Photo Blog take viewers inside Southeast Asia's illegal dog-meat trade.
He told me in an e-mail interview that he considers himself a "dog person" -- "I got an English sheepdog for my fourth birthday and called him Tom" -- and that made it difficult to see the gruesome realities of this trade, which is illegal in Thailand because the exporters aren't paying taxes or getting the dogs vaccinated.
"The dogs are illegally smuggled out of Thailand -- that is the illegal part," he said.
You'll do what I did, which is to imagine your dog, or your childhood dog, in one of these cages.
That shouldn't.
The United States euthanizes 1.2 million dogs per year, according to the ASPCA.
"[U]nlike all farmed meat, which requires the creation and maintenance of animals, dogs are practically begging to be eaten," Jonathan Safran Foer, a vegetarian and novelist, writes in the book "Eating Animals."
But eating those strays, those runaways, those not-quite-cute-enough-to-take and not-quite-well-behaved-enough-to-keep dogs would be killing a flock of birds with one stone and eating it, too."
In parts of Vietnam, not so much.
You can abstain from meat because you believe that the mental capacity of animals is too close to that of humans.
You can eat meat because you believe that it isn't.
I went to Vietnam earlier this year to report a story on the illegal trade in pangolin, which is a scale-covered mammal few people care about (except me and maybe this guy) in the way they care about dogs.
I didn't.
If we think dog shouldn't be eaten -- like, ever, regardless of how clean the trade is and how quick the kill -- then maybe we should think about the other animals we eat, and if and why we don't feel the same way about them.
For his part, Duggleby, the photographer who shot the dog story, told me he was offered dog meat on the assignment but couldn't eat it.
I just couldn't bring myself to try it."
And it's the one all of us should further examine.