BAGHDAD, Iraq (CNN)  -- Samar Saed Abdullah's entire body trembles as she speaks about her impending execution.
The other women, we try to help each other, but we cannot escape the reality that we are on death row and they can take us at any second."
She had been on death row for about two years, and she was terrified.
Samar was sentenced to death by hanging for being an accessory to murder in the killings of her uncle, aunt and cousin -- slayings that she says were carried out at their home by her husband-to-be, who remains on the loose.
Samar has now been moved a step closer to death: to Baghdad's maximum-security prison, where there are more than 500 prisoners waiting to be executed.
I wake up with it in my head," she said.
There was a point in time when Samar was happy, when her life had meaning and joy.
One day, she says, Saif duped her into taking him to her wealthy uncle's house.
The Iraqi police picked Samar up the next day, after Saif dumped her in front of her house and disappeared.
"And now I am here in prison, and he is out on the streets, happy."
She says she was tortured by the police into confessing that she went to her uncle's house with the intent to steal.
But it did not.
And they say that what makes implementing capital punishment even more disturbing is that the Iraqi judicial system does not guarantee a fair trial.
...
"It is my firmly held opinion that Iraq should immediately reinstate the moratorium on executions," the official said.
Local organizations like the Organization for Women's Freedom in Iraq have for years been fighting to get the death penalty abolished in Iraq, especially when it comes to flawed trials and women being put to death.
"As a human rights organization in Iraq, we find that we need some backup from abroad to put pressure on our government as a first step to stop the executions of these women, some of whom we know are innocent."
"They were taken out of the extreme-protection prison," Mohammed said.
Me?
I will never love anyone again.
Samar feels betrayed, both by the man she once loved and by a judicial system that is about to send her to her death.