(CNN) -- Neda Agha-Soltan: The night before she was killed on the streets of Tehran, the woman the world would come to know simply as Neda had a dream.
"I told her to be very careful, and she said she would."
On Monday, Long Island University announced it was awarding a 2009 George Polk Award, one of journalism's highest honors, to the unknown videographer who captured Neda's final moments -- her collapse on the street and her death.
"We don't know who took it or who uploaded it, but we do know it has news value.
"My dad operated a furniture store adjacent to the airport, and so that morning on his way to work, he dropped me off at the airport to see [President Kennedy] come in," Warren said, according to the museum release.
Dafna Michaelson: The former director of volunteer services at a Denver, Colorado, hospital -- and a single mother of two children -- left her job and spent all 52 weeks of 2009 traveling to all 50 states and Washington.
So after her journey, Michaelson decided to help people get their ideas off the couch and put them into action.
Michaelson said, "No matter where I went, I met people who were the same as the pioneers who built this country.
The discrepancy should not surprise.
His father, Kim Il Sung, founded North Korea, and his son ran the country more or less for 20 years as his father aged, taking power officially in 1997, a few years after his father's death.
Post told CNN that Kim Jong Il once kidnapped the most prominent South Korean movie star and kept her under house arrest with her husband for eight years.
Post said he believes that some of his toughness on North Korean nuclear policy now may be the indication of a power struggle at the end of his rule.
Then in May 2007, Miller announced he was leaving the U.S.
U.S.
There are people who enter the news cycle every day because their actions or decisions are new, important or different.
But every day, there are a number of people who become fascinating to us -- by virtue of their character, how they reached their decision, how they behaved under pressure or because of the remarkable circumstances surrounding the event they are involved in.
What they have done or said stimulates conversations across the country.
They intrigue us.