We expected Ryan, not Biden, to bring a three-ring binder full of facts and figures to the debate.
And Biden's aggressive offense from the very beginning drowned out Ryan until about 45 minutes into the debate.
He didn't.
An Obama-Biden campaign official said before the debate that the vice president's goal was to try to compare and contrast the two competing campaigns' vision for the future.
If Biden was on a mission to bring the fight to Ryan, then it appeared to be mission accomplished for the vice president.
Moments into the debate, Biden went on the attack.
Biden went where President Barack Obama wouldn't last week in his debate with Romney, bringing up Romney's "47%" controversy as well as the Republican nominee's tax rate.
"I think Joe Biden is an authentic person.
I don't know if the vice president knew that there was a camera on him the whole time, that there was a split screen," senior Romney campaign adviser Russ Schriefer said.
Gergen agreed: "On style I think that Paul Ryan won the debate.
What did debate watchers think?
Does the debate even matter?
The Obama campaign said he laid out the facts and made Ryan look, in the spin room words of former Ohio Gov.
In the wake of Obama's wilting flower routine in last week's debate, the full Biden, exasperated and angry with Romney and Ryan, was just what Democrats needed.
President Obama put himself in front of cameras after landing at Andrews Air Force Base to praise Biden's performance.
And it wasn't just the Obama camp.
It was arguably Ryan's biggest task in the vice presidential debate.
Known as an expert on economic and budget issues, early in the debate Ryan showed his smarts on foreign policy.
In the warm months, fighting gets really high.
"I think Ryan proved himself unexpectedly competent on foreign policy," said Republican strategist and CNN contributor Alex Castellanos, who worked for Romney's 2008 presidential bid.
"I think Congressman Ryan was out of his depth and showed clearly the ticket is not ready for prime time on foreign policy, and I think that was a decisive difference between the two sides," said Obama campaign manager Jim Messina.
Six out of 10 debate watchers in the CNN/ORC poll conducted said that Ryan is qualified to be president.
"Malarkey" is one of Biden's favorite Biden-isms.
People apparently rushed to their computers to find out.