Bellefonte, Pennsylvania (CNN) -- Matt Sandusky, one of six adopted children of Jerry Sandusky, said through his attorney Thursday that he was sexually abused by the former Penn State assistant football coach, adding that he had been prepared to testify against him in a high-profile child rape case.
Jerry Sandusky, 68, pleaded not guilty to charges of child sex abuse over a 15-year period.
During closing arguments, his defense sought to poke holes in the prosecution's case, pointing to inconsistencies with the testimony of Mike McQueary, a former graduate student and assistant coach who said he saw Sandusky apparently sodomizing a boy in a university shower.
Lead prosecutor Joseph McGettigan followed Amendola, rebuffing the defense's account of a coordinated action among Sandusky's accusers allegedly bent on financial windfall.
"The commonwealth has overwhelming evidence against Mr. Sandusky," he said.
Two other counts -- one of involuntary deviate sexual intercourse and another of aggravated indecent assault -- were not supported by testimony and the evidence presented, Cleland found.
Some court observers had said that if Sandusky were to testify, prosecutors could submit as new evidence a TV interview the ex-coach had with NBC sportscaster Bob Costas.
Sandusky then emerged from the shower area, he said.
Matt Sandusky's name came up during testimony from one of the alleged victims.
The witness, the first accuser to take the stand, said Matt Sandusky looked "nervous" when he saw that Jerry Sandusky was about to start a soap fight.
According to several of the alleged victims, Jerry Sandusky would often use shower "soap fights" as a prelude to inappropriate sexual contact.
He became an instant challenge for me," Sandusky wrote.
"He had the strength and the courage to stay loyal to us even when we weren't sure what would happen," Sandusky wrote.
"When he found out there were others, he was in real misery," Hamilton said, adding Sandusky tried to adopt Weaver.
CNN's Susan Candiotti, Ross Levitt, Jason Carroll, Dana Garrett, Laura Dolan and In Session's Michael Christian and Mayra Cuevas contributed to this report.