Tripoli, Libya (CNN) -- Embattled Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi flatly denied Monday the existence of the protests threatening to end his 41-year rule, as reports of fighting between government forces and rebels raged another day.
Government forces have repeatedly clashed with demonstrators over the past two weeks in Libya, fired on crowds and at times shot indiscriminately at people in the streets, numerous witnesses have told CNN.
Gadhafi's regime has lost control of parts of the country to rebel forces, and with each passing day more Libyan officials around the world have defected, joining calls for his ouster.
"In Egypt, you didn't have a force that was developed; you had protesters who were demonstrating against the government and the government relented," he told CNN in a telephone interview.
Even as Gadhafi sought to project confidence Monday, reports came in that a military jet bombed a military base in an area controlled by rebel forces.
The Temporary General Committee for Defense said reports that the Libyan air force conducted strikes on the ammunition depots in the cities of Ajdabiya and Rajima were false, state TV reported.
Pro-Gadhafi forces also tried to attack a radio station in Misrata, a city controlled by protesters, a witness said.
"He has lost his legitimacy when he declared war on his people," Secretary-General Ban said about embattled Libyan leader, urging him to heed the call of his people.
And the people of Libya have made themselves clear: It is time for Gadhafi to go, now, without further violence or delay," she said.
Carney also said the U.S. government is considering the possibility of imposing a no-fly zone over Libya.
In Tripoli, protesters stayed off the streets, telling CNN they feared violence.
The European Union's high representative for foreign affairs, Catherine Ashton, said the U.N. Human Rights Council "has a grave responsibility to ensure that our often-stated intentions are translated into real actions and real progress."
In an interview with CNN, Ashton said stopping the violence means trying "to persuade the people concerned that they will be held to account, that there will be the International Criminal Court, that we will stop their assets being moved, that we will hold them to account for their actions.
The Security Council measures -- which include an arms embargo, an asset freeze and travel bans for Gadhafi and members of his family and associates -- also referred the situation unfolding in Libya to the International Criminal Court.
As the 68-year-old Gadhafi has appeared increasingly cornered, some Libyan officials have begun to discuss openly what a post-Gadhafi Libyan government would look like.
About 100,000 people have fled Libya to Tunisia or Egypt in roughly the past week, the U.N. high commissioner for refugees said Sunday, citing reports from the Tunisian and Egyptian governments.
Tunisians on the border with Libya waved pre-Gadhafi-era Libyan flags in support of the opposition.