Washington (CNN)This isn't how House Speaker John Boehner wanted to start 2015.
"I think a lot of Republicans are looking for a new direction," Oklahoma GOP Rep. Jim Bridenstine, one of those saying he'll back another candidate, told CNN.
Although he already got the nod to keep his post by the House Republican conference after the midterms in November, Boehner doesn't officially get the gavel again until a majority of members vote for him on the House floor on Tuesday.
"This isn't about John Boehner," Bridenstine said.
Kentucky Republican Rep. Tom Massie told reporters he opposed Boehner not because he wasn't conservative enough, but because he failed to give members enough input into legislation like the massive spending bill that passed in December.
Massie estimated there were between 10 and 50 House Republicans who could back an alternative to Boehner.
Boehner's allies say they aren't worried about him losing his job and GOP members across the ideological spectrum left the first meeting of all House Republicans on Monday night predicting the Speaker would be re-elected.
He reached out individually by phone to House GOP members after the midterms and was the party's top fundraiser in 2014, collecting chits along the campaign trail.
But he made a general pitch to his fellow Republicans on the need to stay united in the new Congress, according to several GOP members who attended the session.
Still, some outside groups are trying to whip up a grassroots campaign to get conservative activists to call in and demand members vote against Boehner.
"We had an election for Speaker in November and no one opposed John Boehner.
Louisiana Rep. Steve Scalise, the third ranking House GOP leader who is tasked with counting votes, admitted last month he spoke to a white supremacist group in 2002.
White House Press Secretary Josh Earnest, asked Monday whether Scalise should stay, took a jab at the GOP, saying who Republicans choose as their elected leaders "says a lot about who the conference is and what their priorities and values are."
Many House GOP members and outside groups are saying they expect many items -- such as changes to banking rules, Obamacare, environmental regulations -- that Senate Democrats blocked to sail through now that McConnell is in charge.
North Carolina Republican Sen. Richard Burr, who is a close personal friend of Boehner's said the Speaker will have to guide House members to concentrate on things that are doable.