(CNN) -- Andre and Korisha Shipley were still mourning the death of their 17-year-old son, Jesse, when two months after his funeral, they received shocking news from students of the same Staten Island, New York, high school Jesse had attended.
Jesse Shipley died in a car accident in January 2005, and the family members say that even though they agreed to an autopsy, they thought they were burying their son with all of his organs.
He says it is common practice for medical examiners in the U.S. to save the brain and certain other organs when they think it's important.
Weedn says the brain is preserved for at least two weeks in a formula that firms the matter enough for the coroner to examine it, a process necessary to rule out suspicion and to maintain evidence for cases when the death is determined to be the result of criminal activity.
He says the deceased is often buried within that time period.
"The state says we're going to take this body and examine it to see what might have happened, but we promise you, we'll give everything back," Caplan says.
He says in situations where an autopsy has been performed and a bereaved family is concerned whether all the remains have been returned, it is usually up to the family to ask.
But, Weedn says approaching the family with this information is an area where even some medical examiners disagree.
Still, Weedn says, in some circumstances it is not beneficial to ask family, because the person of you ask permission could potentially be connected to the cause of death.
Perhaps what's most extraordinary in the Jesse Shipley case is that the family did find out through the serendipitous field trip students from Jesse's high school took the morgue.
Dr. Cyril H. Wecht, a forensic pathologist and attorney who reviews cases like these but is not involved in the Shipley case, says the medical examiner was right to take out the brain for investigation but was wrong to openly display Shipley's name on it.
He says handling the remains was the most traumatizing aspect for the family.
This is not the way it's supposed to be."