(CNN) -- For sale: One football club, formerly the best in Europe, now fallen on hard times.
"You have on one hand the likes of Sheikh Mansour who bought Manchester City, put his money where his mouth is and within four years has transformed the club from also-rans into title winners.
Or in the case of Portsmouth were taken over by the UAE's Sulaiman al Fahim and eventually became the first Premier League club to go into administration.
Remember, Manchester City wasn't the first club Sheikh Mansour bankrolled.
Forest's near neighbor Leicester City, another club to have lost top-flight status in recent years, is now owned by a Thai group -- but Chadwick says there is a big difference in their earning potential.
"It's there where Forest's history and equity of the brand can have an impact.
Foreign investors once flocked to the lucrative but highly expensive Premier League -- Manchester United was reportedly valued at £1 billion when the Qatari royal family was linked with the club -- but the second-tier Championship is now proving to be more value for money.
We drool at clubs like Barcelona, Manchester United and Inter Milan winning the Champions League, but Forest won back-to-back European Cups just over 30 years ago and had one of the most iconic managers -- Brian Clough -- in charge.
Doughty brought in former England manager Steve McClaren at the start of last season with disastrous results, and the current FC Twente coach's short reign resulted in the Forest benefactor -- considered one of the most powerful men in UK business -- standing down as chairman.
One would hope that Forest as a club have learned their lessons.
If Forest fans are getting overexcited about their future, they don't have to look very far for proof that such a takeover can go horribly wrong.
In 2009, city rivals Notts County announced that football's oldest professional club -- languishing in the bottom division and in danger of collapsing -- had been bought by a group called Munto Finance, purportedly financed by Middle East money.
No matter your intentions or how much money you've got, experience of the industry is very important," Chadwick said.
If they are looking to win the Premier League and get in the Champions League, they are going to have to invest a significant amount of money.
"But if their definition of glory days is to get back into the Premier League then it will require a more modest sum.