(CNN) -- Brazil might be the biggest country most of the world doesn't know a whole heckuva a lot about.
Now that Brazil will be hosting the World Cup next year and the Olympics in 2016 (massive public expenditures that many here deeply oppose), it's time for a crash course in all things Brazilian.
Brazilians like to express themselves and don't have many restraints on the volume with which they do it.
Not many Brazilians speak English, particularly outside Rio de Janeiro or Sao Paulo.
(How are you?
Maybe because they're surrounded by so many varieties of exotic fruits the rest of us have never heard of -- caju, camu-camu, pitanga -- Brazilians are experts in the creation of especially tasty fruit drinks, or sucos.
The Brazilian banana is the tastiest in the world, far superior to the bland Central American version (say Brazilians), and it makes for super savory drinks.
One of the largest wetlands in the world, the Pantanal, spans 70,000 square miles in southwestern Brazil.
In world rankings for the gap between rich and poor, Brazil has the 11th biggest gulf, coming in after a group of impoverished African countries.
These mountains of bricks, rising in intricate forms, border the country's largest cities like Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro.
Why make products as far away from the point of sale as you can get in Brazil?
Today, the city of Manaus has gleaming office buildings and modern factories and is growing faster than many other parts of the country.
Brazilians produce two of the biggest bashes the world has known in Carnival and the New Year's Reveillon celebration.
The Northeast of Brazil has a lot of festivals.
The Northeast of Brazil has its own country-style beats -- embolada, baio, xote and forro, which is also a hugely popular dance in Brazil.
Getting to know people in Brazil is a fast-track process.
A day heavy in meet-and-greets can lead to a lot of cheek nuzzling, which for some makes Brazil a wonderful thing and for others a place of more colds and flus.
Piranha live in the major river basins of South America, and the Amazon tributaries of Brazil are well-stocked with them.
Locals blocked off a river and filled it with starving piranha, and then tossed in a cow to guarantee a good show for the President.