While aides in both parties say it's likely Congress will resolve that dispute, Republicans are still licking their wounds after a public backlash over how they handled those issues and fear that Senate Democrats will drag out the fight to score more political points in an election year.
Democrats, who run the Senate, and Republicans, who control the House, acknowledge that outside of the payroll tax cut bill no major legislation is expected to make it through Congress this year.
This week House Republicans will huddle at their annual three-day retreat in Baltimore to map out their 2012 agenda and strategy for responding to President Obama and Congressional Democrats.
Tensions between Senate Democrats and Republicans are also high.
And with key economic nominees needing Senate confirmation, including a new Director of Office of Management and Budget after Jack Lew was named White House chief of staff, Republicans could cause problems for the president and Senate Democrats.
When Congress limped out of town before Christmas, it agreed to a two-month extension of a bill that cuts payroll taxes, extends unemployment benefits and prevents a cut in the rate paid to doctors who care for Medicare patients.
Some in the GOP are wary the White House and Senate Democrats will try again to pass a surtax on millionaires -- something even some Democrats don't support -- as a way of painting the GOP as protectors of the rich.
"I would hope the two Republican leaders would have learned from what took place in the previous year," Reid said.
Senators also want to pass a highway bill that would fund road and bridge construction for the next two years.
"If he punts again, it will be clear the White House plans to spend the year on autopilot.
In addition to their push for Keystone, House Republicans are planning votes early this year on legislation that would expand domestic energy production and upgrade transportation infrastructure across the country.
"If the president wishes to ignore Congress and play political games, that's his decision, but by doing so he will own the gridlock," the aide said.
It will then continue all year with a myriad of bills Democrats think will prove to a wary public they are putting jobs first.
A measure to fund school construction is another example of a bill Democrats hope to highlight.
Democrats need to pick up 25 seats to regain control of the House -- a high hurdle, but one many Democrats feel is within reach because they think voters will blame Republicans for the gridlock in Washington.
The recent announcement by Sen. Ben Nelson, a conservative Democrat from Nebraska, that he would not seek re-election is seen by Republicans as another sign Democrats will lose majority control.