And another one.
And while Clinton's speech was 15 minutes longer than his famously panned 1988 convention address, this one kept the audience in the packed Time Warner Cable Arena on its feet.
Why?
Republicans were stunned after the speech.
Bill Clinton saved the Democratic Party once.
"Highly effective Clinton speech.
Mitt's speech should have done this."
Republicans criticized Democrats this week for largely avoiding a firm answer on the question of whether Americans are better off than they were four years ago.
While speakers at the DNC Tuesday and Wednesday mostly stayed away from the topic, Clinton answered it head-on in his speech, delivering perhaps his biggest moment of the night.
No.
Listen to me," he said, as the crowd roared.
The answer -- yes," he said forcefully.
"No president -- not me, not any of my predecessors -- no one could have fully repaired all the damage he found in just four years," he said.
One week after criticizing the platform that Republicans approved at their convention last week, Democrats got a taste of their own medicine on Day Two of their convention.
Another change restored the word "God" to the platform after the 2012 version omitted it, though it included language on faith as part of American society.
And Democrats say that illustrates that the president showed leadership.
"After a roaring first night that we all proclaimed was successful, they started out Wednesday night with a stumble," said CNN Senior Political Analyst David Gergen, who has advised Democratic and Republican presidents.
We, not me
But in speech after speech about the slowly recovering economy, Democrats aggressively pushed a common message: We're all in this together.
"It was 'we,' not 'me,' " Hickenlooper said over and over again.
Republicans look out for themselves, while Democrats look out for each other.
And while speakers addressed Bain during prime time, Democrats seemed to be more fired up about another target Wednesday night: his running mate.
Speech after speech dealt several zings at Rep. Paul Ryan's budget plan, a proposal widely backed by the GOP and one that favors tax cuts coupled with large entitlement cuts.
"Mitt Romney and Paul Ryan are correct when they say that each individual should be responsible.
Van Hollen, who's been tapped to play the role of Ryan in debate prep for Vice President Joe Biden, said Romney and Ryan's "obsession with tax breaks for the wealthy is part of a rigid ideology."
"So when they say they'll turn around the economy, beware.
Watching the convention this week, it seems those attacks fuel plenty of fire against Romney, one that may not die down anytime soon.