Afghan Election Day - Journey to a remote part of Afghanistan ahead of a presidential election.
CARL AZUZ, CNN STUDENT NEWS ANCHOR: One country prepares for its next orbiting opportunity while another has to wait to kick-start its space program.
AZUZ: We begin in Iraq, where a series of bombings have rocked the capital city of Baghdad.
Iraq's prime minister said the bombings will force the country to re-evaluate its security plans.
AZUZ: U.S. forces are also helping out in Afghanistan today, as that country holds just the second presidential election in its history.
Afghanistan's Independent Election Commission estimates that there are about 17 million registered voters in the country.
As you can see, security is important here, even though this is one of the safest provinces in the country.
Despite that good track record, election workers say, in some parts of the province, they've heard of armed men going house to house, warning people not to vote.
People here, they say they are going to participate in the elections.
Me!
AZUZ: South Korea's space program is in a holding pattern after officials cancelled yesterday's rocket launch just eight minutes before liftoff!
South Korea is hoping that the rocket, which cost about $400 million, will jump-start its space program.
AZUZ: The U.S. space program has been running for decades, and NASA is planning its latest launch for next week.
What you're looking at is Hurricane Bill as seen from the orbiting space station.
GEORGE RAMSAY, CNN STUDENT NEWS: Today's Shoutout goes out to Mr.
You can find all of these features on an electric guitar.
Felipe Barral tells us about a new guitar that incorporates the past as it moves toward the future.
BARRAL: At the Guitar Center, John Halpen shows off the latest offering.
BARRAL: The guitar tones itself, just by turning the master control knob, one can change to any of 18 different tones.
The guitar also has a technology called "chameleon" that can simulate several classical sounds, sounds that use to depend on the different types of wood a guitar is made from, like a classic electric guitar or an acoustic guitar to a more jazzy sound.
AZUZ: Showoff.
Or is it cheating, kind of taking something away from tuning the guitar yourself?
AZUZ: Before we go, want to know the fastest way to ruin a quiet summer evening?
When animal control showed up, it took two officers to wrestle the rascally reptile into the truck.
For CNN Student News, I'm Carl Azuz.