Lawmakers began a new session of Congress with the mass shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary school in Newtown, Connecticut, still fresh in their minds -- inspiring a new push to pass gun laws that could prevent another tragedy.
"These assault magazines help put the 'mass' in 'mass shooting' and anything we can do to stop their proliferation will save lives in America," said McCarthy, whose husband was killed and her son critically wounded in a mass shooting on the Long Island Railroad in New York in 1993.
In the Senate, California Democrat Dianne Feinstein plans to introduce a bill to ban the sale, transfer, importation and manufacturing of more than 100 firearms.
But gun control is a heated topic, and any push to restrict access to guns will be met with strong opposition from the 4-million-member National Rifle Association, the nation's most powerful gun rights lobby.
The NRA has also questioned the effectiveness of gun bans, suggesting they could put communities in danger.
They post signs advertising them.
"The NRA has said that the answer to Newtown is to put more guns, more police officers in schools, and so if you want anything to happen on gun control, you're going to have at least half of the Senate upsetting the NRA and that's a very difficult proposition."
Gramlich said some elements of gun control -- like banning high-capacity ammunition magazines -- could get passed, but more comprehensive legislation faces long odds.
Those recommendations are due this month, and the president has said he wants Congress to pass legislation this year.
"We're hopeful that more can get done on this issue now than in many years," said Shams Tarek, McCarthy's communications director.
"There's definitely a question of timing and floor time for these kinds of debates, and then there's also the political question," said Gramlich.
"You just had a fiscal cliff deal where the House speaker really alienated a lot of the members of his own party, because he was seen as making too many concessions towards the Democrats, and if you're talking about an issue as powerful and emotional as gun control, is the speaker really going to meet Democrats halfway on something like that and risk offending his own party even more?