Brawley is the chief medical officer for the American Cancer Society, a world-renowned cancer expert and practicing oncologist.
If you're going to get someone's opinion on a cancer diagnosis or course of treatment, he's a good choice.
To understand fully, you have to look at the history of cancer diagnosis, Brawley says.
The problem, Brawley says, is that they're still comparing the samples to the cancer definition that was created more than 150 years ago.
We all harbor abnormalities, says H. Gilbert Welch, Dartmouth professor of medicine and author of the book "Overdiagnosed: Making People Sick in the Pursuit of Health."
There is a growing consensus, backed by mounting scientific evidence, that Americans tend to be overtested, overdiagnosed and overtreated across a variety of conditions.
There may also be perverse economic incentives at play -- that is, in a fee-for-service system, doctors are compensated for the quantity of tests and procedures they order.
Simply put, physicians are trained to think that the way you take care of people is to "find stuff and to take care of that stuff," Welch says.
Energized by public awareness cancer campaigns, many patients have been empowered to find cancer early through screening and to intervene as soon as possible, Welch observes.
It's an issue many people have difficulty wrapping their heads around: Some patients who are diagnosed with cancer do not need to be treated, because that cancer is never going to bother them.
The National Cancer Institute working group made several recommendations for the medical community in addressing cancer overdiagnosis and overtreatment.
Doctors know that approximately 10% of localized lung cancer tumors and 20% to 30% of localized breast cancer tumors that are found through screening would never cause harm, Brawley says.
And in return, we save some lives."
"In my experience, it's not the diagnosis of cancer which really kills people," said Ezekiel Emanuel, a former oncologist, vice provost for global initiatives and chairman of the Department of Medical Ethics and Health Policy at the University of Pennsylvania.
"We've been taught that cancer is a terrible thing and the way to deal with it always is to find it early and cut it out," Brawley said.
"We're starting to realize that that is not true in all cases."