But few Middle East watchers predict the atrocities in Houla will break the diplomatic deadlock that has cemented itself around Syria for the last 15 months.
"We don't have any idea how to make these guys go away," conceded a high-ranking Western diplomat based in the region, who spoke to CNN on condition of anonymity.
"In the immediate future, there is not going to be a Western intervention in Syria."
"Partly it's Allawite solidarity," said Khouri, who was referring to al-Assad's Allawite minority sect, which holds a disproportionately large number of positions in the security forces and in government.
"The biggest problem is the regime in Syria is not that weak," argued Omer Taspinar, a Washington-based analyst with the Brookings Institution.
After initially rejecting armed rebellion against the government, the Syrian opposition has morphed into a patchwork of loosely coordinated rebel groups determined to bring down the Syrian president.
For months, demonstrators across Syria have chanted, "Arm the Free Syrian army" at protests that are filmed and then distributed around the world via YouTube.
"We burned the town's police station and the city hall in order to force the security and armed forces out of this area," Akil said in a phone interview from the battlefield, as gunshots and explosions could be heard in the background.
Hours later, Haj Taha said doctors pronounced his brother Abdo dead.
The Syrian government blames al Qaeda-linked groups for a series of devastating suicide bombings targeting the headquarters of security forces in Damascus and Aleppo.
"Last week I was driving out of the city and two armed guys with long beards stopped me and asked me whether or not I pray," said Mamoon, a teacher from the southern city of Dera'a, who asked only to reveal his first name for security reasons.
One of the only measures that rival members of the U.N. Security Council have been able to come to agreement on was the deployment of hundreds of U.N.military observers to Syria.
"The monitors are just monitors, they are not peacekeepers.
And as the Syrian government and rebels accused each other of killing the children, the U.N. observers visited Houla and swiftly published a report that concluded the Syrian army fired artillery and tanks into the town.
"It's a bad situation, but its not as bad as it would be if you had a proxy war erupt between Iran and Saudi Arabia in Syria, or between Iran and Turkey in Syria.
The Western diplomat was left hoping for what he called "a game-changer" -- a coup or an assassin's bullet that would bring down the Syrian president.