Prosecutor Gerrie Nel has accused the athlete of hiding the truth about the death of Steenkamp, whom he shot last year through a closed toilet door in his home in Pretoria, South Africa.
Pistorius said he thought he heard the toilet door opening before he fired.
Nel, known in South African legal circles for his bulldog-like approach to cross-examination, responded to Pistorius' testimony almost with scorn.
Nel then hammered Pistorius on whether he had known Steenkamp was in the toilet when he fired.
Pistorius earlier denied being "ready to shoot" as he made his way to the bathroom where he says he heard what he thought was an intruder.
"You wanted to shoot," contended Nel, who on Thursday sought to build a picture of Pistorius as an arrogant hothead who is reckless with guns.
Nel also argued that it was "not possible" that Steenkamp would not have responded when Pistorius screamed to her about what he thought was an intruder in the house, as he has said happened.
She was scared of you," replied Nel.
Pistorius said he did not.
Pistorius replied that he didn't because he was sure about what he had heard.
At one point, the judge reprimanded Nel for calling Pistorius a liar and told him to mind his language.
More than once, Nel suggested that Pistorius had difficulty remembering what happened because he had made things up.
Nel has previously accused Pistorius of becoming emotional when the questions get difficult.
...
After Judge Thokozile Masipa pressed Pistorius on the question, the athlete said he wasn't making mistakes because he was tired -- prompting Nel to ask why, in that case, he was making mistakes.
Nel also focused on security on the gated Silverwoods estate where Pistorius lived, pointing out that despite his claimed fear of burglary, the athlete left his cars outside and had not immediately fixed a broken window in his house.
"Because it was all about Mr. Pistorius," Nel said.
The trial has gripped South Africa, where Pistorius is considered a symbol of triumph over physical adversity.
Only those in the courtroom can see Pistorius because he has chosen not to testify on camera.
CNN's Marie-Louise Gumuchian and Emily Smith contributed to this report.