However, the arrival of Dutch coach Robert Baan as the nation's first technical director signals a possible revival of a country with a 1.2 billion population.
It is still early days, but Baan believes with continued development of India's grassroots, the country might be ready to participate in the 2022 World Cup.
This grassroots project involves the All India Football Federation (AIFF) opening residential academies all over the country, free to athletes and providing education alongside football training.
"I think this is the first positive step that Indian football and the AIFF have taken in the last 30 years," he said.
The AIFF has governed football in India for 75 years and was responsible for appointing Baan.
"India has been playing football, as well as cricket, for over 100 years," Roy told CNN.
Former Indian soccer star Baichung Bhutia, who briefly played for English lower division team Bury FC in 1999, added: "If the AIFF says India's not a sporting nation, then what are they doing there?
However the influence of England -- or rather the English Premier League -- still hangs heavy over Indian football.
And for La Liga, it's Barcelona," says Somil, without hesitation.
"But I don't really know much about Indian football."
The Indian Football Association (IFA), which manages football in West Bengal, organized the country's first international friendly between the hugely popular Venezuela and Argentina in 2011.
Again, these efforts, independent of the AIFF, did not make noticeable improvements to the home game.
"These clubs don't know how lucky they are because they did absolutely nothing to get this kind of commitment from fans," says Hindustan Times sports journalist Dhiman Sarkar.
"Football hasn't changed; it's still the same from the '60s and '70s.
It hasn't caught up with world football and where it's gone.
Along with Manchester United, Liverpool and Barcelona have also opened football academies in the country.
Shaji Prabhakaran -- FIFA's South Asia development officer -- says schools in India should give sport as much importance as math and promote its health benefits.
Das points out that this would be the first time that India would play in a World Cup.
.