Specter died of complications from non-Hodgkin's lymphoma at his home in Philadelphia, his family said.
Specter was elected to the Senate in 1980 and represented Pennsylvania for 30 years, longer than anyone in the state's history.
"From his days stamping out corruption as a prosecutor in Philadelphia to his three decades of service in the Senate, Arlen was fiercely independent -- never putting party or ideology ahead of the people he was chosen to serve," Obama said in a written statement on Specter's death.
"There isn't any doubt in many respects he was an unusual politician," Madonna said.
...
"The last thing you would have thought about Arlen Specter was that he was born in Kansas," Madonna said.
After graduating from Russell High School in 1947, Specter first went to the University of Oklahoma.
After Yale, he started practicing law and became an assistant district attorney in Philadelphia.
Specter ran for the U.S. Senate in 1976, but he was defeated in the Republican primary by John Heinz.
"During his tenure in the Senate, Specter championed Pennsylvania's economy and took an active interest in foreign affairs, meeting with dozens of world leaders as well as supporting appropriations to fight the global HIV/AIDS pandemic and backing free trade agreements between the U.S. and under-developed countries," according to a bio from the University of Pennsylvania Law School.
Specter brought more financial resources to Pennsylvania than anyone in the state, working with mayors and other local leaders to help them get grants and aid, Madonna said.
"No member of Congress shaped the Supreme Court more than he did," Madonna said.
Despite his longtime membership in the Republican Party, Specter became more alienated from the party as it grew more conservative.
After the loss, Specter moved from the halls of Congress to those of academia, taking on a new role at the University of Pennsylvania Law School as an adjunct professor.
"For the past quarter-century, he's also been a Zelig-like national figure," the Philadelphia magazine article said, referring to the Woody Allen character from the film of the same name who changed his persona as his surroundings and circumstances changed.