Washington (CNN) -- In one ill-fated fundraiser, Mitt Romney managed to offend Palestinians, Latinos and some of the same people he's counting on for support if he wants to unseat President Barack Obama.
Another Democratic strategist said that Romney's comments played into the two narratives that they have pushed: "First, that he doesn't care about the middle class.
"On the second front ... in order to give big tax cuts for the rich, Mitt Romney is going to have to raise taxes on the middle class.
I think we can all agree with that," she said on "Early Start."
While some some applauded Romney's comments, others saw them as reinforcing why they questioned his legitimacy.
"It's worth recalling that a good chunk of the 47 percent who don't pay income taxes are Romney supporters — especially of course seniors (who might well "believe they are entitled to heath care," a position Romney agrees with), as well as many lower-income Americans (including men and women serving in the military) who think conservative policies are better for the country even if they're not getting a tax cut under the Romney plan.
And so those are people that I'm not going to be able to reach with my 20 percent tax cut or my cuts in spending because they would be concerned.
Romney argued nearly half of Americans will vote for Obama because they rely on government support.
The Romney campaign had banked on its convention last month to make a favorable introduction of Romney to the electorate, a large part of it just beginning to pay attention to the election.
After the attacks, Romney in a statement said, "It's disgraceful that the Obama administration's first response was not to condemn attacks on our diplomatic missions, but to sympathize with those who waged the attacks."
Romney has been plagued by a series of gaffes during his presidential run.
In a February interview, Romney told CNN that he is "not concerned about the very poor," citing the safety net in place by the American government and said that his primary focus is the middle class.
...