Relics of vanished civilizations, a vast inland sea with a water-loving cat and a Biblical mountain with views deep into Iran and Armenia are just some of the reasons to go.
The Dogu Expresi (Eastern Express) leaves nightly at 6 p.m. and takes just more than 24 hours to trundle from Ankara to Kars, almost 1,500 kilometers away in the remote northeast.
You can book online at Turkish State Railways, or by phone (+90 0216 337 8724), but the English version of the site is clunky -- it's easier to book through a travel agent or buy tickets at a station.
But remarkably few people visit the equally spectacular Aphrodisias, where you can wander around a square kilometer of ruined temples and theaters with only tortoises for company.
You can see some of their work in the excellent on-site museum.
Up to 400 meters deep and almost 120 kilometers across, Lake Van is a true inland sea.
It can be visited by a combination of dolmus and small boat from Gevas, about 50 kilometers from Van.
Some of the most spectacular cycling country is in the Kackar mountain range and the valley of the River Coruh, where you can also go whitewater rafting.
You can fly to Erzurum from Istanbul or Ankara, or take the train (see above).
The Lycian Way feels like a path trodden by the ancients but in fact this walking route stretching from the Aegean coast to the Mediterranean was pioneered in 2000 by an Antalya-based expat, Kate Clow.
Several airlines fly to both Dalaman (about 50 kilometers from Olu Deniz) and Antalya from Istanbul and direct from European airports.
From the summit of Ararat, you can see a vast swath of Turkey and deep into Iran and Armenia.
The terrain is rugged, and climbers must contend with extremes of heat and cold -- the highest summit is snow-covered all year, and summer temperatures at the foot of the mountain can reach more than 30 C.
You can buy tickets in advance, but you should shop around for the best fare, because several lines compete on each route.
Turkish Airlines (+ 90 212 444 0849) flies to Istanbul and Ankara from major cities worldwide, with connections to Antalya, Dalaman, Erzurum, Trabzon and Van from Istanbul and Ankara.