CARL AZUZ, CNN STUDENT NEWS ANCHOR: A problem that won't be solved, even if the solution is clear.
When a weather emergency is called in New York, which gets more than two feet of snow a year, you know it's bad.
MARTIN SAVIDGE, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Officials knew Atlanta wasn't prepared for the storm.
SAVIDGE: Atlanta has relied on two basic facts -- southern snowstorms are rare, and the best way to get rid of the snow is to simply let it melt.
SAVIDGE: Cunningham says because a convention might have been snowed out doesn't mean the city lost money.
CUNNINGHAM [ON PHONE]: There is certainly some lost income associated with hourly workers not being able to get in and get paid.
Why not just buy the equipment to handle the snow?
REED: My answer right now is no.
AZUZ: A tone of coming together at the U.S. House of Representatives.
The president and first lady, whom you see here, were also planning to spend time at the University of Arizona in Tucson, where they were going to visit with victims' families.
AZUZ: We're turning now to our Facebook page, for some of your comments on the Arizona shooting.
You can talk to us at Facebook.com/cnnstudentnews.
CNN STUDENT NEWS: Is This Legit?
And it's not just the people in the middle of these floods who've been affected.
PHIL BLACK, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: The Brisbane river churned swiftly, sweeping away boats, their jetties and other huge pieces of debris.
BLACK: All along the river people desperately packed what they could into cars and trailers.
They raced the water, and some kept going even when they were clearly falling behind.
BLACK: We rowed with Adam Beswick to his home, past others with water already up to the ceiling.
BLACK: And all of this is just one street.
More proof of just how quickly this water is coming in.
Phil Black, CNN, Brisbane, Australia.
And you follow the instructions to get your iReport to us.
AZUZ: If you've ever visited us here at the CNN Center, you've been only a snowball's throw, from the world famous Peachtree Street.
I'm Carl Azuz!