You can find it here.
Because we're gluttons for punishment -- or maybe just because we think we actually can please all of the people all of the time -- we're back for round two.
Boardwalks have been enhancing beachside amusement since long before the Drifters' released their classic "Under the Boardwalk" in 1964.
Of course, you don't have to travel to Jersey to experience the joy of a lumber-pathed stroll; there are more than 60 boardwalks split between America's coasts.
One of the most inspiring American experiences is witnessing the culture of the first Americans come alive in a spectacle of swirling, pulsing color.
Wrigley Field, Chicago
Like a giant video display installed in 2000, and extra seats and luxury boxes that have been added time and time again.
4.
Pretty much any stadium will do, but a game experience doesn't get much better than at Bryant-Denny Stadium in Tuscaloosa, Alabama, home of the reigning national champion Alabama Crimson Tide.
(Yes, we know, the barbecue is spicier and the cheerleaders are hotter at your team's stadium, but we had to draw the line somewhere and "national champs" earns you the top spot on lists like this.)
Also, those races don't have a traditional drink made of bourbon (mint julep), nor do they encourage everyone to dress like a flamboyant Southern aristocrat.
The first Woodstock Music & Art Fair in 1969 was one of the most pivotal moments in American cultural history.
As the website puts it, describing Burning Man is "like trying to explain what a particular color looks like to someone who is blind."
Almost every candidate has roots in other countries, but, of course, that's what makes them American.
There are thousands of spectacular soul food restaurants -- many of the best are in the South -- but Sylvia's in New York is maybe the most well known.
While we're in the region, one of America's great art forms, Blues music, grew up in the juke joints of the South.
Sure, other countries have Christmas lights (or fairy lights, in the UK), but no one else takes it quite as seriously as Americans.
Americans know how to make praising Jesus memorable.
The mega-ist of American megachurches is Lakewood Church in Houston, led by senior pastor Joel Osteen.
Every week his message is broadcast to 7 million viewers in more than 100 countries.