"I just knew FootGolf would be a bit of a no-brainer for the amount of golf courses there are, as well as the number of golfers and footballers," O'Connor told CNN of a game that involves players kicking a football around a golf course, complete with bigger holes.
After years in production, O'Connor would bring the sport to the UK -- where there are now over 10,000 active players -- and set up UK FootGolf in 2012.
Footballers are well known for playing golf in their spare time, so perhaps it is no surprise that FootGolf has proved such a hit with those hailing from a footballing background -- 70% of people who have taken up the sport have been footballers.
While there is obviously the relaxing aspect of walking around a golf course on a sunny day, former English Premier League player Bryan Hughes also feels that the sport represents another opportunity for footballers to flex their competitive muscles.
But while golf is in good health when it comes to attracting footballers, the sport has lost players in recent years -- According to a report in The New York Times, a recent survey by the U.S. National Golf Foundation estimated the game has lost five million in the last decade, with 20% of the existing 25 million golfers likely to quit in the next few years.
"A lot of people are getting involved and loving the sport.
"When I first set up FootGolf I knew a lot of people would want to play the sport, and I knew I wouldn't be alone in liking the idea of playing football on a golf course," he said.
There has been an overwhelming response from these coaches, who have contacted UK FootGolf to explain that the game is the perfect way to help youngsters focus on their passing and shooting.
"The concept of FootGolf is something that really appeals to me and I'm sure there is a massive amount of people that would really want to get involved with the Academy Scheme.
As well as furthering the profile of the sport, the Academy Scheme will be hoping to produce some of the FootGolfers of tomorrow.
"Players travel from country to country because they love FootGolf and they love trying different courses," O'Connor said.
"In five years' time, every country in the world that has got golf courses will be a member of the Federation for International FootGolf," O'Connor said.
That's how big an impact the sport is having around the world."