CARL AZUZ, CNN STUDENT NEWS ANCHOR: I'm Carl Azuz and you're watching CNN Student News!
Around 3,500 people were told to leave their homes, and school was canceled in the area.
Planes, like the one you see here, are dropping fire retardant, chemicals that are used to try to put out the fires.
And in the southern part of the state, Hermine threatened what are called "storm surges."
TOMEKA JONES, CNN STUDENT NEWS: Just the facts.
TERRY JONES, CHURCH PASTOR, DOVE WORLD OUTREACH: We feel that the message that we are trying to send is much more important than people being offended.
AZUZ: A lot of people are criticizing this idea to burn Qurans.
We've put up a post on our blog at CNNStudentNews.com where you can talk this story, you can talk about how you feel about it.
Worldwide, one out of every 10 adults is illiterate.
AZUZ: Sticking with the education theme, different teachers have different teaching methods.
KYUNG LAH, CNN CORRESPONDENT, TOKYO: The school day begins at Wada Junior High with drills; math drills, as fast as these kids can do them.
Principal Akihisa Shirota believes it so much, he joins the students.
"Principals are people who became teachers right after graduating from college," says Shirota.
He runs the school more like a corporation; students, his workers.
In the three years since Shirota has been principal, the school claims higher test scores.
It's 6:40 in the evening and students are still here at Wada Junior High School.
Critics call this too tough for a public school, but Shirota says the old must give way to new thinking.
AZUZ: Well, it is time for our first field trip of the school year: Off the Beaten Path.
Just arm yourself for a battle of the biceps!
AZUZ: But we're not still talking about arm wrestling.
AZUZ: But if a "haybale obstacle course" isn't your speed, saddle up for a one-wheeled whirl across the Brooklyn Bridge!
To get this many people over age 8 to participate, you must be trying to set a record.
AZUZ: A world record is always cool, even if group dances are a little hokey.
Have a great one.