"There is big advantage to moving first, and when you're a whale like both Jeb and Romney are, and you jump into that pool first, its hard for anyone else to squeeze in," said B. Wayne Hughes, a California billionaire and Republican donor who has not committed to supporting a candidate.
His surprising decision last week at a New York donor meeting to "show some 2016 leg," as one attendee put it, was designed to keep Bush at bay as he mulls a third presidential bid.
But their moves are also complicating things for Christie, who is still expected to launch a presidential bid but is moving at a much slower place than Bush or Romney.
"The last couple of weeks actually had no impact," said one Christie confidante, granted anonymity to discuss the 2016 machinations with some candor.
No candidate — even ones with the names Bush and Romney — can take the donor world for granted, the Christie adviser insisted.
Christie, have a leg up on donor world," the source said.
And The Wall Street Journal reported this week that Ken Langone, the Home Depot founder and prominent Republican donor, is organizing a dinner for Christie and potential supporters in New York later this month.
Once the donor primary ends and the actual primary begins, Christie may be on better footing in a race against Bush and Romney.
"He is kind of a hell-raiser, and nobody is going to say that about Jeb Bush or Mitt Romney," said Leighton Lord, a South Carolina attorney who hosted a reception for Christie in the early primary state this week.
With Romney, you're never sure if you're getting the real Mitt Romney or the Romney he thinks you want."
Though he's been slower than Bush or Romney when it comes to hiring staff and building out a campaign, Christie is still looking and sounding very much like a candidate-in-waiting.
Nikki Haley, Christie posed for selfies with top elected officials, including the Lieutenant Governor and Attorney General, before dropping by a crowded GOP meet-and-greet arranged by Lord and other Republicans.
"My honor to introduce Chris Christie in South Carolina today," he wrote.
"The man tells it like it is...we like that in S.C.!"