The national controversy over a surge of Central American immigrants illegally crossing the U.S. border established a new battleground this week in a Southern California small town where angry crowds thwarted detained migrants from entering their community.
The Latin American immigrants rejected by Murrieta protesters were initially held in Texas, where U.S. facilities are so overflowing that detainees are sent to other states for processing.
Tuesday's busloads of detained Central American immigrants didn't include any unaccompanied minors, said Murrieta Police Chief Sean Hadden, who put the number of protesters at 125.
"This is a failure to enforce federal law at the federal level," Mayor Alan Long said in a statement Monday about the pending arrival of the 140 immigrants to the U.S. Border Patrol station.
"It's not against the immigrants," he said.
The U.S. government is scheduled to send another group of undocumented immigrants to Murrieta for processing on Friday, the union official for Border Patrol agents said.
Mothers and their children on these buses have suffered through enough trauma."
The U.S. government earlier flew the 140 Central American immigrants from south Texas to San Diego.
Those children are being kept separate from the others at the San Ysidro station, he said.
The U.S. government is struggling to detain and accommodate an influx of undocumented immigrants, particularly a wave of unaccompanied children from the Central American countries of El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras.
The furor in Murrieta illustrated the conflict between protecting the borders and ensuring the safety of detained immigrants and children.
Other protesters told CNN affiliate KGTV said they wanted immigrants to follow the legal process to enter the United States.
"If these children were from Canada, we would not be having this interview," Morones said.
The Obama administration has accused syndicates in Latin America of waging a deliberate campaign of misinformation about relocating to the United States that has caused people in poor Central American countries and Mexico to risk their lives to cross the U.S. border illegally.