"It's just surreal how quickly someone can go, and how much we take for granted everyday," said Danvers High School student Chris Weimert, describing Ritzer as "the nicest teacher you could ever have.
...
Authorities also converged on Danvers High -- where Ritzer taught and which Chism attended -- finding blood in a second-floor bathroom, the district attorney said.
Meanwhile, the tight-knit community of Danvers is at a loss to explain why someone might take the life of Ritzer, a 24-year-old known for posting inspirational messages on her Twitter account and offering students extra help when they needed it.
"I don't know why she had to die," freshman Spencer Wade said of Ritzer, adding that the mysterious and bloody nature of her death made it even harder to deal with.
Chism attended fourth grade at a Clarksville, Tennessee, elementary school, said Clarksville-Montgomery County, Tennessee, school system spokeswoman Elise Shelton.
Chism didn't drink, do drugs and came from a good family, one of his closest friends said.
Blodgett declined Wednesday to offer specifics on the relationship between the suspect and the late teacher, though his office said Chism attended one of Ritzer's classes.
When authorities first reported Chism missing on Tuesday, people responded on the police department's Facebook page with prayers for his "safe return."
Ritzer graduated from Assumption College in 2011, that school said on Twitter.
Like Dzerkacz, Ritzer's aunt Shirley Martellucci said her niece never had any trouble with students -- including during the past two years, when she was at Danvers High.
"She always wanted to be a teacher, all her life," Martellucci said.
"She was always the teacher (who would) go the extra mile for students, always the teacher to be there for students after school," said Kyle Cahill.
CNN's Dana Garrett, Laurie Segall, Eden Pontz, Rob Frehse, Rose Arce, Chandler Friedman, Stephanie Gallman, Alexis Weiss and Bob Crowley, as well as journalist Alexandra Field, contributed to this report.