But Holmes was hardly a cartoon.
Holmes says he was insane at the time of the shootings, and that is his legal defense and court plea: not guilty by reason of insanity.
He appeared dramatically different in January when jury selection began for his trial: 9,000 potential jurors were summoned for duty, described as one of the nation's largest jury calls.
Just before the shooting, Holmes was a doctoral student in neuroscience, and he was studying how the brain works, with his schooling funded by a U.S. government grant.
The jury will have to render verdicts on each of the 165 counts against Holmes, including murder and attempted murder charges.
Holmes also has a sister, Chris, a musician, who's five years younger, the newspaper said.
His family then moved down the California coast, where Holmes grew up in the San Diego-area neighborhood of Rancho Peñasquitos, which a neighbor described as "kind of like Mayberry," the San Diego newspaper said.
In 2008 he was a summer camp counselor for disadvantaged children, age 7 to 14, at Camp Max Straus, run by Jewish Big Brothers Big Sisters of Los Angeles.
Holmes was one of six pre-thesis Ph.D. students in the program who were awarded a neuroscience training grant from the National Institutes of Health.
Holmes was "denied access to the school after June 12, 2012, after he made threats to a professor," according to court documents.
Holmes began to fantasize about killing "a lot of people" in early June, nearly six weeks before the shootings, the station reported, citing unidentified sources familiar with the investigation.
What caused this turn for the worse for Holmes has yet to be clearly detailed.
Nine minutes before Holmes went into the movie theater, he called a University of Colorado switchboard, public defender Brady has said in court.
According to The New York Times, Holmes sent a text message to a fellow graduate student, a woman, about two weeks before the shooting.
It was her last contact with Holmes.
For Holmes, "justice is death," said Brauchler, the district attorney.