It also kicks off the next phase of Marvel movie standalones like "Thor" and "Captain America: The Winter Soldier" that lead into "The Avengers 2."
The stakes are more personal for Stark this time out, and although comic book fans will recognize the classic characters, Stark's got new on-screen villains to contend with such as Eric Savin/Coldblood, played by James Badge Dale.
"I think it's such a great ensemble piece that I would hope that our roles are the same as they were the first time around," Carell said.
Then "The Great Gatsby" had its release date shuffled from December 2012 to May 10, 2013, curtailing potential Oscar nominations this time around (although the trailers still look promising).
The second installment of the series, due November 22, just wrapped shooting in Hawaii (the new Game, featuring survivors of Games past, has a water-and-jungle theme).
"We've really loved everything we've seen so far in the film," said "Beautiful Creatures" co-author Kami Garcia.
Will Benedict Cumberbatch's mysterious "John Harrison" character become Khan?
2013 will see its fair share of familiar properties getting new life in the form of remakes and reboots.
Will there be any eating of live octopus like in the original?
Smaug will be the first performance-captured dragon, and thanks to advancements in technology, we should be able to see more emotion and musculature in his face in the same manner in which Gollum was improved for "The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey," only on a much bigger scale.
This time, however, it's more of a family drama; Gosling really only carries one third of the film.
On the comedic side, it's a toss-up between Seth Rogen's directorial debut "This Is The End," out June 14, and Edgar Wright's "The World's End," out October 25.
Fans of "Shaun of the Dead" and "Hot Fuzz" know this will be epic.
"Elysium" (starring Matt Damon, out March 1), "Oblivion" (starring Tom Cruise, out April 19), and "After Earth" (starring Will Smith, out June 7) share common themes, but only the first two seem to blame rampant corporatization and wealth discrepancies instead of nature.