(CNN) -- Long lines lingered in some key states after polls closed in most of the United States, but voters and election officials reported few snags in Tuesday's balloting.
Election officials said the voters were able to cast ballots for their intended candidate, and there were no further complaints once the machines were fixed.
The nonpartisan election monitors from the independent Committee of Seventy said two voting machines had broken down at one precinct on the city's north side, forcing poll workers to issue provisional ballots.
One of the complaints about misbehaving electronic voting machines occurred in Millerstown, in central Pennsylvania's Perry County, where election officials said they recalibrated the unit after one voter recorded a video of it registering a vote for Obama as one for his Republican challenger, Mitt Romney.
Hirsch said he reported the problem to a volunteer poll worker who was calm and receptive to the issue and told him the machine had been having problems all day.
Greg Katherman, Union County's director of elections, confirmed there was an issue with one voting machine, but said there were no further issues after the machine was recalibrated.
Concerned her vote wouldn't be tabulated, she said she called the Cuyahoga County Board of Elections and was told the ballots would be manually fed into the machine later.
And in New Jersey, state officials allowed voters displaced by Superstorm Sandy last week to cast ballots electronically or by fax.
The state chapter of the American Civil Liberties Union went to court Tuesday afternoon on behalf of voters who said their requests for an electronic ballot weren't being acknowledged.
Andrew Cuomo's last-minute decree that any voter could vote at any precinct, a move intended to help those displaced by Sandy, made it "a little insane right now" at the polling station at Public School 41 in Greenwich Village, a poll coordinator there told CNN Tuesday afternoon.
CNN's Brad Rhoads, Ann Colwell, Sarah Hoye and Courtney Yager contributed to this report.