Porto Santo Stefano, Italy (CNN) -- Rescuers reached two trapped honeymooners in the interior of a cruise ship more than 24 hours after it ran aground off a picturesque Italian island, killing three people, injuring 20 and leaving dozens unaccounted for.
"For me, the worst part of the whole ordeal" was when a lifeboat crew member told those boarding that it was "women and children first," said passenger Benji Smith of Boston.
"Every crew member who walked past shouted instructions, but the instructions contradicted each other," Smith said.
"Me and the crew, we were the last to abandon ship," he said.
The ship began taking on water Friday evening and the crew kept going because they believed the vessel could normally keep sailing, Nicastro said.
"At the moment we can't exclude that the ship had some kind of technical problem, and for this reason moved towards the coast in order to save the passengers, the crew and the ship.
"These people could be still on the island of Giglio, in private houses or in hospitals," Orsina said.
Gianni Onorato, president of Genoa-based Costa Cruises, expressed "deep sorrow for this terrible tragedy," but said the cruise line was unable to answer all the questions that authorities are now investigating.
"Unfortunately, that operation was complicated by a sudden tilting of the ship that made disembarkation difficult," Onorato said.
At least three lifeboats, each with a capacity of more than 100 people, apparently malfunctioned due to technical or crew error, Smith said.
Buddy Reams, chief of the U.S. Coast Guard's Cruise Ship National Center of Expertise, said, "when it comes to cruise ships, in the event of emergency, cabin stewards or others would have safety roles," he said.
Once ashore, no one from the crew assisted them, Shafer said.
Costa Cruises, owned by parent company Carnival Corp., said it was focusing on the final stages of the emergency operation and helping passengers and crew return home.
Brazil's state-run Agencia Brasil said 53 Brazilians were on the cruise ship.
There were no reports of injured Americans though the U.S. Embassy in Rome said it was unable to account for all U.S. citizens believed to be on board the ship at the time of the accident.