(CNET) -- Coming from a company known more for its plasma HDTVs, the Panasonic TC-32LX85 is a pleasant surprise in the 32-inch LCD category.
Side panel AV inputs are neatly tucked away behind the right side of the screen.
The Panasonic TC-32LCX85's offers a fairly comprehensive feature package for an entry-level 32-inch LCD TV.
The Backlight feature may be the most important in terms of optimizing the panel's picture, as it helps it achieve reasonably deep black levels when lowered from its factory setting.
Black Level should be set to Light for full shadow detail, although intuitively I would think Dark would be correct.
Connection options are generous enough on the Panasonic, although unlike most other small-screen flat-panel sets it lacks a VGA-style PC input.
Side panel inputs include one HDMI, and one set of AV inputs with composite video only, and an SD Card slot on the right side of the panel for viewing your digital photos.
Black level: Blacks are reasonably good for an inexpensive LCD flat-panel TV, and deeper than either the Sony or the Vizio, although not quite as deep as the Westinghouse.
Color accuracy: As you can see from the Geek Box, grayscale tracking in the Warm color temperature preset was impressive, and the primary colors of red, green, and blue also measured reasonably close to the HDTV standard, which is unusual even in some expensive flat-panel displays.
The set lacks an aspect ratio that provides for zero overscan, which would be a bigger issue if it were a 1080p resolution panel, but really isn't a big deal the panel has only a 720p resolution.
Uniformity: White-field uniformity was reasonably good on this panel, and that is saying something for an LCD.
The set's noise reduction, on the other hand, was very good at cleaning up moving motes in low-quality images of skies and sunsets, and the set engaged 2:3 pull-down detection quickly and effectively.
The best resolution the video card allowed was 1,280x768, which is short of the set's native resolution, and there was enough overscan that important areas of the screen, including the Windows taskbar, were obscured.