Scattered around the tables between the laptops were pamphlets and fliers for candidates of the Freedom and Justice Party, the newly established political wing of the once banned but now free and unfettered Muslim Brotherhood.
They've come a long way since then -- occasionally operating openly, other times hounded by the police.
The Brotherhood is unbound.
The movement's Egyptian opponents frequently describe the Brotherhood as sheep in wolves' clothing.
In 2006, when a ferry sank between Saudi Arabia and the Red Sea port of Safaga carrying more than 1,000 workers from Upper Egypt, the Brotherhood rushed relief supplies, only to have them blocked by the government.
said Abdel Aziz Zaid, production manager at an industrial printing press in Cairo and Brotherhood member.
"When people see that we are well-organised now and were well-organised in the past, they will know we can use that organisation to achieve prosperity in the future," he said.
The Brotherhood is often accused of opportunism, but, if that's the case, it's chosen its opportunities wisely.
The large turnout for the first two days of voting, and the dwindling numbers in Tahrir Square, suggest that the Brotherhood once more played its cards well.
"I'm going to vote for the Freedom and Justice Party!"
An office worker and mother of three, she listed her reasons for voting for the Brotherhood's Party: "If the Muslim Brotherhood run the country, they'll fix everything - health, housing, jobs, girls who walk around with their hair uncovered, girls who walk around in the wrong clothing.
And that seems to be the attitude of many members and supporters of the Brotherhood -- that they'll bring people over not by compulsion but rather by conviction and example.
She was waiting in line to vote "against the Muslim Brotherhood," she said.
A few years ago I interviewed Mahdi Akif, then the leader, or Supreme Guide, of the Muslim Brotherhood.
Rifaat Said, the wizened old leader of the leftist, secular Agama's Party shared with me his concerns about the Brotherhood.
"So, if you are not with them, the Brotherhood, with God's party, are you with the devil's party?"