Andrew Tabler, an expert on Syria at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy, said air intelligence has been deeply involved in the eight-month-long crackdown by the Syrian government against protesters, a grinding civil conflict that the United Nations says has left more than 3,500 people dead.
Tabler said the strike reflects the growing sophistication of the Free Syrian Army, which has brigades across the country and has been in existence since the summer.
He called air intelligence "one of the most terrifying secret service departments in Syria" and said such security entities will be targeted by defectors.
It was one of five actions reported by the opposition force, which has recently emerged as an important factor in the opposition movement as more and more soldiers have left the Syrian army.
Tabler said the Free Syrian Army consists of soldiers who've left their posts instead of obeying orders to fire on protesters.
Opposition groups like the Free Syrian Army have been calling on the international community to help protect protesters.
The Arab League, meeting in Rabat, Morocco, said al-Assad didn't stick by his pledge to release detainees, withdraw armed elements from populated areas, and allow unfettered access to the nation by journalists and Arab League monitors.
He said Syria hadn't fulfilled commitments to the league and the Turks to rein in the instability.
Time is working against the Syrian regime.
Mohammed al-Ikhsafi, Morocco's ambassador to Syria, told CNN a demonstration occurred in front of his country's embassy in Damascus on Wednesday.
Morocco's Foreign Ministry condemned the attacks on its embassy, the country's official news agency reported.
"The Syrian government will shoulder the responsibility on maintaining the security of its diplomatic mission and the respect and safety of its staff," said foreign affairs undersecretary Juma al-Junaibi.
For its part, the Syrian government freed 1,180 detainees Tuesday as part of the Arab League peace plan.
The number of civilians killed Wednesday was 20 -- 11 in Homs, 7 in Idlib, and 1 in each Daraa and Damascus suburbs -- said the Local Coordination Committee of Syria, a coalition of activists.