Here are 10 things about sound and health that you may not know:
Matter is vibrating energy; therefore, we are a collection of vibrations of many kinds, which can be considered a chord.
One definition of health may be that that chord is in complete harmony.
We see one octave; we hear ten.
Listening positions are a useful set of perspectives that can help people to be more conscious and effective in communication -- because expert listening can be just as powerful as speaking.
There is now wealth of evidence about the harmful effect of noise, and yet most people still consider noise a local matter, not the major global issue it has become.
The European Union says: "Around 20% of the Union's population or close on 80 million people suffer from noise levels that scientists and health experts consider to be unacceptable, where most people become annoyed, where sleep is disturbed and where adverse health effects are to be feared.
The World Health Organization says: "Traffic noise alone is harming the health of almost every third person in the WHO European Region.
Then there is the effect of noise on social behavior.
The U.S. report "Noise and its effects" (Administrative Conference of the United States, Alice Suter, 1991) says: "Even moderate noise levels can increase anxiety, decrease the incidence of helping behavior, and increase the risk of hostile behavior in experimental subjects.
My assertion that continual schizophonia is unhealthy is a hypothesis that science could and should test, both at personal and also a social level.
Now we ignore our neighbors, merrily discussing intimate details of our lives as if the people around us simply don't exist.
My assertion that listening to highly compressed music makes people tired and irritable is based on personal and anecdotal experience - again it's one that I hope will be tested by researchers.
If the volume is turned so loudly that you can no longer hear conversation around you, or if someone has to shout at you at a distance of about 2 or 3 feet to get your attention, then you are up in the hazardous noise range."
These assertions seem to be uncontroversial.
Both music therapy and sound therapy can be categorized as "sound healing."
Doubtless there are charlatans offering snake oil (as in many fields), but I suspect there is also much to learn, and just as herbal medicine gave rise to many of the drugs we use today, I suspect there are rich resources and fascinating insights to be gleaned when science starts to unpack the traditions of sound healing.