(Budget Travel) -- Looking for cheap airfares for your big trip abroad but suffering from search fatigue?
Once you've found a good flight, click on the price and you'll be sent directly to the airline's Web site, where the exact price for the exact flight you selected unfailingly appears.
Use Kayak to fetch fares for your itinerary and then click on "Show chart of fare history," which is a link near the top left-hand corner of the search results.
Strategy No.
To name your "trigger" price, look at Kayak's fare-history chart to see the lowest fare recorded for this route, and use an amount close to that as your baseline.
To see how much you might save, we recommend you take Kayak's flexible-date search tool for a spin -- it covers the broadest range of routes and airports of the competing tools we tested.
Finally, relative newcomer Trax.com's flexible search tool lacked a "search nearby airports" feature, which meant it gave you fares from major airports, but missed cheaper fares departing nearby.
For example, rather than buy a single ticket for direct flights between Chicago and Barcelona for $1,000, you may be able to buy two tickets -- one for a round-trip ticket between Chicago and New York City for $200 and another for a round-trip ticket between New York City and Barcelona for $600 -- and save about $200.
Our initial searches on a few travel Web sites didn't turn up any nonstop flights between the two cities, but we did find multi-stop tickets.
Next, we did a quick search for round-trip airfares on flights between Houston and Los Angeles.
If you decide to book two tickets on two different airlines, be sure to allow extra time to make your connections, and consider buying good travel insurance to make sure you're covered in the event of a problem.
When all else fails and you just can't get the fare you want, think about off-season travel.
For instance, we recently discovered that fares from Houston to Australia were as much as $800 lower in November than in January.