(CNN) -- Two weeks.
The first of several Australian military planes, as well as two long-range commercial jets, resumed their search Saturday morning to find any trace of the objects, amid some skepticism that they or ships in the area ever will and, if they do, that whatever they find will be related to the missing aircraft.
"It could just be a container that has fallen off a ship," Abbott said during a visit to Papua New Guinea.
And Malaysian and Chinese vessels -- including the icebreaker Xue Long, or Snow Dragon, as reported by China's official Xinhua news agency -- are also steaming to join a massive Norwegian cargo ship diverted there Thursday at Australia's request plus a motley collection of merchant ships heading to the search area.
But the ocean depths in the search area could make finding them very difficult, experts say.
NASA Administrator Charles Bolden said Friday that he's tasked the U.S. space agency to mine its existing satellite data and also try to capture fresh images that might aid in the search.
Hishammuddin said Friday that Malaysian authorities were awaiting permission from Kazakhstan's government to use the country as a staging area for the northern corridor search.
"Obviously, the search now has taken a global perspective," Hishammuddin said.
CNN hasn't confirmed that this reported transcript it genuine, and The Telegraph said Malaysia's prime minister said the transcript wouldn't be officially released.
Malaysian authorities say they believe the missing plane was deliberately flown off course on its scheduled flight from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing.
A U.S. official familiar with the investigation told CNN on Thursday that an FBI team is confident it can retrieve at least some of the deleted files.
Malaysia's Hishammuddin had said items were deleted before February 3, but American investigators now say such deletions happened after that date.
On Friday, Hishammuddin said Ukraine told Malaysia that background checks on its citizens aboard the plane had come back clear.
The sadness is still there, but I'm just going to stay strong."
Omar said authorities have not contacted him and he is confident his son had nothing to do with the plane's disappearance.