Health Care - Map out the next steps for a health care plan after a Senate committee vote.
CARL AZUZ, CNN STUDENT NEWS ANCHOR: I scream, you scream, we all scream for CNN Student News!
Now one thing we want to point out, this vote is just part of the process.
YELLIN: But all eyes were on Senator Olympia Snowe, the one Republican who might vote yes.
Would she?
This is just the vote of one Senate committee.
If that passes, then you have two health care bills, one from the House and one from the Senate.
YELLIN: At least for now, the White House can claim a smidge of bipartisan support, and health care inches forward to the next step.
Me
AZUZ: There are 68,000 U.S. troops in Afghanistan right now helping to fight the Taliban.
40,000, what's that all about?
CHRIS LAWRENCE, CNN PENTAGON CORRESPONDENT: One hundred thousand American and allied troops are already fighting in Afghanistan.
He feels certain parts of the country are peaceful enough, like the north, or just not as important, like the west, that they don't need the same number of counter-insurgency fighters as these areas do.
LAWRENCE: Kagan says McChrystal would use those troops to turn the tide, so the Taliban doesn't control every other town.
So, when 30,000 American troops surged into Baghdad, that's where one out of every four Iraqis lived.
Chris Lawrence, CNN, Washington.
Well, there is a storm that forecasters are calling the first major one of the season and it is pounding the state with strong winds and heavy rains.
One resident said the whole face of the mountain just came off.
Just some of the work being done by this year's CNN Heroes.
No matter what your ice cream cravings are, chances are that Jaxson's Parlour can meet them, just like it has been for more than half a century.
MONROE UDELL, OWNER, JAXSON'S ICE CREAM PARLOUR: My name is Monroe Udell.
I made the ice cream myself.
We're renowned, you know, in the industry as one of the outstanding ice cream parlors and restaurants in the country today.
UDELL: We've had, you know, down time and good times with the economy.
AZUZ: A kitchen sink full of ice cream?
We will look forward to seeing you again tomrrow here at CNN Student News.
Bye bye now.