(CNN) -- Fifty years after President John F. Kennedy's assassination, there are very few down-the-line defenders of the Warren Commission to be found.
Hoover later admitted: "We failed in carrying through some of the most salient aspects of the Oswald investigation.
To this day, the CIA says it did not have a relationship with Oswald and that it is not withholding anything important about the assassination from the public.
-- Both the CIA and the FBI failed to inform the commission about their various arrangements with the Mafia, another prime suspect in Kennedy's killing.
If we could go back in time, maybe it would be possible to figure out why the CIA was so interested in Oswald or why the FBI was so responsive when Oswald demanded to see its agents while he was in a New Orleans jail in August 1963.
Lee Harvey Oswald almost certainly was the man who killed President Kennedy.
The Dallas police found photos of Oswald holding a rifle, taken by his wife.
After Oswald's first bullet missed the car entirely, the so-called "magic bullet" that struck JFK in the back was perfectly aligned to do substantial damage to Connally's body.
A homemade paper bag was left on the sixth floor, and the employee who gave Oswald a ride to the depository on the morning of November 22 testified that Oswald was carrying a parcel wrapped in brown paper that Oswald claimed was "curtain rods," but which just as easily could have been a disassembled rifle.
Oswald tried to shoot another officer at the Texas Theatre when he was captured a little while later, shouting, "It's all over now."
There is no question that many powerful individuals and groups, some with whom Oswald had personal association, possessed the means, motive and opportunity to kill President Kennedy.
Was Oswald encouraged or manipulated in any way?
The next president will rule on any requests from the CIA and other agencies that materials be withheld or redacted after 2017.
Transparency cannot bring President Kennedy back, but at long last it can help America to come to terms fully with November 22, 1963 -- and perhaps to prevent similar events in our future.