A design student at the University of Edinburgh, he was aiming to produce an artistic exhibition for a module on sustainability, when he stumbled on "Dupe," a living alternative to concrete.
Crucially, Trimble believes his mechanism has the added benefit that it could be employed by anyone, anywhere.
Concrete, bricks and cement have remained the dominant materials since the industrial revolution in the early 19th century, and as pressure mounts on resources and climate, scientists and architects are looking to the natural world for solutions.
The company has won major prizes and funding for the bricks, which will be used in a structure for the first time this year in a pedestrian walkway, ahead of building projects across the world.
New York firm Ecovative are producing materials that combine agricultural waste products such as corn stock with mushroom mycelium -- the roots of the vegetable.
Mycelium effectively dies once its growth is complete, but Harrington is looking ahead to material that does not.
Ecovative are in dialogue with major construction companies, and the material will soon be tested on a historic scale.
Benjamin says the bio-bricks could be made to last as long as traditional materials, but believes architecture must embrace temporary structures.
"I could imagine every structure you would built out of bricks", says Dirk Hebel, Assistant Professor of Architecture and Construction at the Future Cities Laboratory in Singapore.
The material is stronger than concrete, with better insulation capacities".
"In biology, complex structures achieve resource efficiency by putting things in exactly the right place, which is very difficult with made materials", says Pawlyn.
Growth would be focused on specific areas of need using an electrical current.
But from rock to fungus, sand to space dust, the use of materials and processes designed by nature herself offer both a solution to the sustainability crisis, and a glimpse of our new built environment: clean, efficient, and alive.
Feeling glum, happy, aroused?