The acting prime minister has gone so far as to say that a Russian invasion would mean war and an end to his country's relationship with Russia.
Eastern Ukraine and the Crimea have closer ties to Russia, while Western Ukraine is more friendly with Europe.
Many Eastern Ukrainians still speak Russian, and the 2010 presidential elections divided the country with Eastern Ukraine voting heavily in favor of pro-Russia Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych.
However, in a press conference Friday, the former President said -- in Russian rather than Ukrainian -- that he was not overthrown.
They've also said that any invasion would be illegitimate, a response echoed by the United States, which has told Russia to respect Ukraine's sovereignty.
International leaders have also denounced the prospect of Russian involvement, while Obama has warned there would be consequences if Russia acted militarily.
6.
"That means 20 years of trying to work with Russia down the drain," he said.
It would have opened borders to trade and set the stage for modernization and inclusion, supporters of the pact said.
Russia threatened its much smaller neighbor with trade sanctions and steep gas bills if Ukraine forged ahead.
Yanukovych also was facing a key EU demand that he was unwilling to meet: Free former Prime Minister Yulia Tymoshenko, his bitter political opponent.
11.
They took to the streets, demanding that Yanukovych sign the EU deal.
But the opposition bloc goes well beyond Klitschko and the UDAR.
He flew to Moscow, where he and Russian President Vladimir Putin announced Russia would buy $15 billion in Ukrainian debt and slash the price Kiev pays for its gas.
What did the anti-protest law say?
16.
They feel that too much power rests with Yanukovych and not enough with parliament.
In late January, the President offered a package of concessions under which Yatsenyuk, the opposition leader, would have become the prime minister and, under the President's offer, been able to dismiss the government.
They said Yanukovych had hardly loosened his grip on the government, nor had he seemingly reined in authorities' approach to protesters.
Street protests that started in November over a trade pact swelled into something much bigger -- resulting in the former President fleeing to Russia for safety while still claiming to be the official leader of the country.
With Russian troops rumored to be preparing for hostilities in the Crimea, the future of the region and the resulting effect on U.S.-Russian relations appears shaky.