Last month, officers visited Rodger, 22, who they say killed six people and himself Friday night, at his apartment in Isla Vista, California.
So disturbed that someone from a mental health agency, after consulting with one of Rodger's relatives, requested police check on his welfare April 30, Brown said.
Rodger said he was having troubles with his social life.
After that, Rodger wrote, he kept one of his guns and some loaded magazines near him so if police came back to his apartment, he would try to shoot them and escape.
Rodger uploaded a video Friday, calling it his last.
The plan to kill many people apparently had come together in the past year, Brown said.
Hong and Chen were "listed on the lease for the apartment as tenants, along with Rodger," the Sheriff's Office said.
Minutes later, Rodger sprayed bullets at the house from across the street, Brown said.
And she was -- I could tell immediately she was gone," said Sullivan, 19.
"And there was another girl right here.
Rodger then zoomed around town in a black BMW, stopping at a delicatessen where he shot and killed Christopher Martinez, another UC Santa Barbara student.
He shot at two people on the sidewalk, pulled a handgun on a woman and fired some more, Brown said.
...
The nightmare finally ended after Rodger slammed into a parked vehicle and apparently shot himself in the head, police said.
Inside the wrecked BMW, Brown said, police found three handguns -- all legally purchased -- and more than 400 rounds of unused ammunition.
Rodger suffered from an undisclosed mental health issue and was under the care of a variety of health care professionals, Brown said.
The official said nothing had been found in the gun trace to indicate Rodger should have been disqualified.
"Being denied entry on a simple amusement park ride due to my height may seem like only a small injustice, but it was big for me at time," Rodger wrote.
"My orchestration of the Day of Retribution is my attempt to do everything, in my power, to destroy everything I cannot have," Rodger wrote.
It is only fair."