(Mental Floss) -- Perhaps your history teachers failed to alert you to these Civil War facts: Jefferson Davis nearly got mugged by an angry female mob; Abraham Lincoln loved the Confederate anthem "Dixie," and Paul Revere was a Civil War casualty.
This idea didn't sit well with leaders like Frederick Douglass, who considered colonization to be "a safety valve...for white racism."
One of the first attempts was on Île à Vache, a.k.a.
Once Île à Vache fell through, Lincoln never spoke of colonization again.Mental Floss: 6 Historical Events People Love to Reenact
Civilians in both the North and South had to cope with scarcity and increased food prices, but the food situation was especially bad in the South because outcomes on the battlefield were directly linked to the CSA's currency -- rising food prices were hard enough to deal with without wild fluctuations in what the money in your pocket could buy.
Hungry protesters, most of whom were women, led a march "to see the governor" in April 1863 that quickly turned violent.
During his first battlefield flight, at First Bull Run, Lowe landed behind Confederate lines, but he was rescued.
Alligator).
Sumpter, but it had to be cut loose off of North Carolina on April 2, 1863, when bad weather struck.
Housatonic off the coast of Charleston, making it the first submarine ever to sink an enemy ship.
Before and during the war, the song was a huge hit in New York and across the country, and quickly became one of Abraham Lincoln's favorite tunes.
The day after the Surrender at Appomattox, Lincoln told a crowd of Northern revelers, "I have always thought 'Dixie' was one of the best tunes I have ever heard.
Paul was promoted to Lieutenant Colonel in September, 1862, shortly before he was wounded in the brutal Battle of Antietam (a.k.a.
Edward, however, wasn't so lucky -- he was one of more than 2,000 Union soldiers who didn't make it out of Sharpsburg, Maryland, alive.
In it, he recounts a whopping two weeks spent in 1861 with a Confederate militia in Marion County, Missouri.
Twain writes that there were fifteen men in the rebel militia, the "Marion Rangers," and he was the second lieutenant, even though they had no first lieutenant.
Hundreds of women on both sides pulled a Mulan, assuming male identities and appearances so that they might fight for their respective nations.
So it should come as no surprise that many of these women kept up their aliases long after the war had ended, some even to the grave.