Here on this Caribbean island, and on the others that make up what's known as the West Indies, life revolves around one thing -- cricket.
In 1983, the West Indies cricket team was on top of the world.
At the same time, a world away, South Africa was deep in the heart of apartheid.
In 1970, the International Cricket Council banned South Africa from international competition, leaving the country's cricket-mad fans deprived of the sport they loved, and their cricketers of the careers they dreamed of.
To save cricket in South Africa, the sport's administrators knew something had to be done.
And it wasn't long before many began suspecting South Africa was also targeting a team from the West Indies, the dominant force in world cricket.
Many big-name West Indies stars were outspoken in their refusal to play in apartheid South Africa.
"I made the decision because I wasn't getting treated right as far as the West Indies (team) was concerned," said King.
But the day the team left, Stephenson had a change of heart.
"I knew the tour was more important than being just cricket," Stephenson said.
"We packed them in," said Murray.
It seemed South African fans couldn't get enough of the black cricketers from the West Indies.
They say the presence of a team of black men in South Africa did not help end apartheid, but instead strengthened and supported it.
When the month-long tour was over, the rebel players knew they would have to face the repercussions of their decision back home.
The players were aware they might face a ban -- after all, England's rebel team had been banned for three years; Sri Lanka's was banned for 25 years.
His wife gave birth to their baby daughter in Australia, while Murray was playing in South Africa.
He is now a golf instructor at a country club in Barbados.
And to this day, they hold strongly to the belief that being in South Africa in 1983 made a difference in disbanding apartheid, less than a decade after the West Indies players were there.
In the last article, he stated the trip might have started with the players being viewed as mercenaries, but he saw them as missionaries "who converted white South Africans to accepting that blacks were their equals."
You've got work to do."
"Well, yes I was a mercenary for black people's cause, because wherever I've been, I've been an ambassador for my country, my race and the game of cricket.