Such effusive praise from a frequent Obama critic and strong supporter of Republican presidential challenger Mitt Romney put the campaign magnifying glass on a key election issue -- the role of the federal government -- a week before the November 6 vote.
At a campaign event changed to a storm relief effort in Ohio, Romney ignored shouted questions by reporters on whether he supported the Federal Emergency Management Agency's role in disaster relief.
Asked by moderator John King of CNN if disaster relief efforts should be turned over to states, Romney said that "every time you have an occasion to take something from the federal government and send it back to the states, that's the right direction.
King cut in to ask if Romney was referring specifically to disaster relief, a topic in the news at the time following a deadly Joplin, Missouri, tornado, and Romney continued: "We cannot afford to do those things without jeopardizing the future for our kids.
Romney believes that states should be in charge of emergency management in responding to storms and other natural disasters in their jurisdictions," said the statement by spokeswoman Amanda Henneberg.
This includes help from the federal government and FEMA."
Vice President Joe Biden, meanwhile, said Tuesday that the federal response to Sandy was "working like it's supposed to," and he highlighted to reporters in Ohio what he described as unprecedented cooperation between city, state and federal authorities and agencies.
Obama has avoided any direct political talk in recent days as the huge storm approached the Eastern seaboard, canceling campaign events and focusing his attention on the administration's response.
In statements Monday and Tuesday on the storm and its aftermath, he emphasized the need for a collective response while also making sure to point out the federal role in relief efforts.
While the president and one of Romney's top supporters will be photographed together responding to disaster, Romney is scheduled to be in Florida for three campaign events.