"Sport has the power to change the world," Nelson Mandela once said -- and the South African prisoner-turned-president also provided perhaps the most eloquent supporting evidence for his claim.
That last sentence was the closest Mandela came to referencing his own role in using sport to unify South Africa, a country that had been separated by skin color and the warped political ideology of apartheid for nearly half a century by the time he became its first black president in 1994.
Despite their readmission in 1992 to international rugby, after years of apartheid-enforced sporting isolation, South Africa used home advantage so well that the debutants reached the World Cup final.
Two hours later, the day's images adopted iconic status as the "Rainbow Nation" beat New Zealand to win the tournament, precipitating widespread celebrations, increased harmony and a mixture of both pride and hope to a South Africa in desperate need of reconciliation.
"This idea that sport can harmonize a nation is a cliché that South Africans use -- but we also know that sport can divide.
Mandela won the argument despite the Springboks' history of breaking the international sporting ban that the ANC had successfully forced on many South African teams during apartheid.
Two years later, Mandela and South Africa repeated the trick -- this time with soccer, the game that was the main preserve of the country's black community.
"It is thanks to Mandela that the world could finally trust us to deliver this event at a world class level," Danny Jordaan told the FIFA website.
"Nelson Mandela will stay in our hearts forever.
"The sports history books in South Africa will show statistics and victories.
This sense of belonging is one that Mandela maintained with his foundation, the Nelson Mandela Children's Fund, which started the Sport for Good program with the aim of using sport as a way of improving the lives of children in both South Africa and Swaziland.
The efficacy of his discipline -- which also included 45 minutes of running "on the spot in my cell" and extensive anaerobic exercise four times a week -- was clear to see in the energy he brought to life as a free man -- keeping together the fragile, new South Africa, visiting world leaders and becoming one of the political icons of our time.