You won't need a costume to take in these attractions, but if you're looking for ideas on what to wear on October 31, you might find some inspiration from these historic -- and sometimes horrific -- destinations.
Funeral transportation is also in the spotlight at the William Lafferty Memorial Funeral and Carriage Collection in West Union, Ohio, with vehicles dating back to 1848.
The Famous Endings Funeral Collection in Dover, Ohio, is a must-see for history buffs curious about celebrity deaths.
If you want to spend the night in the company of such unusual history, check in at the Sturgis House, a funeral parlor turned bed and breakfast in East Liverpool, Ohio.
Delve into its many layers at the New Orleans Historic Voodoo Museum, where admission is $5 for adults.
There's also a cornucopia of New Orleans hotels where the paranormal is considered normal, such as the Monteleone, where you can stay in a haunted room or ride an elevator that seems to have a mind of its own.
Chilling attractions in this historic port city include Civil War relics such as bloodied uniforms, an amputation kit and plenty of deadly weapons.
Be sure to stop by the Charleston Library Society, a downtown cultural hot spot where you're likely to find someone who's an expert on the city's darker side.
Thirty miles north of New York City, you'll find Sleepy Hollow, a village made famous by the legend that bears its name.
Various characters and scenes from the legend are said to be based on the people and places of Sleepy Hollow, such as the burial ground at the Old Dutch Church.
Visitors serious about studying this chapter of history can use the museum as an educational starting point, then spend hours, days or weeks traveling through the region touring the homes, historic markers, grave sites and other relics related to witchcraft hysteria.
The museum can provide a map and a list of more than 30 sites in the area.
Even luxury respects the role of witches and the supernatural: October guests at the prestigious Balmoral Hotel can enjoy the perk of Halloween Afternoon Tea, but the concierge staff says the demand for tours of the eerie and bloodcurdling is high year-round.
If you want to find a scary site in a specific area, the HAA website has a "Haunt Finder" and you can also check out past winners of the organization's annual Oscare Awards.