The goals for the visit were ambitious: reassure allies the United States remains committed to a "pivot to Asia," secure new deals to expand trade, and send a message to China that the United States has its allies' backs in territorial disputes.
Before Obama even landed in Tokyo he'd taken Japan's side in its bitter spat with China over a set of uninhabited islands in the East China Sea — suggesting the United States would lend support to Japan should the squabble escalate militarily.
A week later, the White House announced the United States and the Philippines would enter into a new defense pact that allows for more American troops in Southeast Asia — interpreted by China as an attempt to balance its own presence in a region where land and water are in constant dispute.
That's exactly the kind of crisis Obama wants to prevent through greater U.S. attention to China's neighbors.
The Trans Pacific Partnership would ease business ties between the United States and Asian partners — a goal Obama claims would create jobs for both sides while opening up new markets for U.S. firms.
After several rounds of negotiations, Obama had hoped to be able to announce an agreement with Japan during his stop in Tokyo.
It was a disappointing result for the first stop of Obama's Asia trip, though his own domestic politics — including resistance to new trade deals from Democrats in Congress — would have made any new deal a tough sell.
It would be hard to argue Obama wasn't making good on his vow to refocus his foreign policy toward Asia this week — after a canceled trip and crises in other parts of the world, at least he made it to the continent.
During his final stop in Asia, Obama fiercely defended his foreign policy choices, arguing that his decisions to avoid military force shouldn't be viewed by Americans — or allies — as weak.
4.
In South Korea, Obama presented the country's president with a framed American flag that was flown over the White House the same day of the tragic ferry accident that left — at latest count — nearly 200 dead.
Like in Seoul, Obama expressed his condolences to victims' family members — but avoided wading into the controversy surrounding the government's response.
His stop there, the first by a U.S. president in decades, comes after an economic growth spurt and renewed — though still cautious — desire for ties with the United States.
When asked about his biggest regret, Obama didn't offer political misgivings or wishes for foreign policy do-overs.
"Our strategy is more than just security alliances or trade agreements," Obama said at the forum.