Soon, he plans to stand again in Cell 14, Block 2 at the Abu Salim prison in Tripoli.
As many as 1,200 prisoners were killed at Abu Salim in the summer of 1996, according to Human Rights Watch.
Since his release in 2000, Shafei had thought about Abu Salim's dead.
Shafei, now working with the opposition in Benghazi, knew he had to return there.
With the Libyan regime on the brink of collapse, Shafei hopes the truth about Abu Salim will finally be known.
"We had no idea where he was," she said from her home in Atlanta.
The guards would drag her son out of his cell and into a warehouse at the entrance of the jail, where mother and son met.
Shafei spent eight years that way, in a cramped cell, without his family or the education he should have finished.
"Five or seven minutes after it started, the guards on the roofs shot at the prisoners who were in the open areas," Shafei said in an interview with Human Rights Watch many years later.
"I could not see the dead prisoners who were shot, but I could see those who were shooting," Shafei told Human Rights Watch.
The next day, Shafei was ordered to clean the blood-smeared watches taken off the wrists of the dead.
More than a decade after the Abu Salim incident, the United Nations Human Rights Council noted that the Libyan government was unable to provide any information on its investigation of the allegations.
Among those waiting to find out more are three brothers in Atlanta whose father, opposition activist Izzat Almegaryaf, was plucked from his home 20 years ago.
The Almegaryaf brothers know their father was detained at Abu Salim -- they received letters from him in the early 1990s.
'At least now we know,' they said."
Then in February of this year, the regime arrested Fathi Terbil, a human rights lawyer who represented some of the Abu Salim families.
After 12 years at Abu Salim, Shafei was released in 2000.
"Hussein came here and had a mission," Nabil Shafei said.
Now, as the newly freed prisoners began returning home to Benghazi, Shafei knew the time had come for him to go back to the prison.
He owes it to all those who survived Abu Salim.
But mostly, he owes it to the souls of the dead.