says our Boeing VIP tour guide.
As part of a convention of aviation fans called Aviation Geek Fest, we're gaining ultra-exclusive access to the factory FLOOR.
We're about to walk knee-deep where Boeing gives birth to some of the world's biggest and most advanced airliners, including the 747-8 Intercontinental, the 777 Worldliner and the 787 Dreamliner.
Suddenly, we're surrounded by partly assembled airliners in a room so big it takes on the feeling of an entire world.
They eliminated that by installing a special ventilation system.
Boeing paints the tails before they're attached to the planes.
The "Wing Build" area -- where workers attach wings to the planes -- is the loudest part of the entire facility.
"Conversation-restricted area," says one sign.
We gather around this rock star engine like thirsty travelers at a desert oasis, each taking turns running our hands across its silver exterior.
In fact, Boeing says it's so big you could fit the body of a 737 airliner inside it.
Just a few hours earlier, a handful of aviation geeks were hanging out at a hotel next to Paine Field, the airport Boeing uses to test and deliver the factory's planes.
In the entire world, there are only four of these giant planes.
Boeing uses them to ferry big sections of the 787 for final assembly here in Everett.
"It's someone who always looks up in the sky when they hear a jet roar," says Ryan Ewing, 14, who runs airlinegeeks.com out of his Bethesda, Maryland, home.
Boeing's desire to connect with fans and fliers combined with the emerging power of the avgeek nation opened the doors to the exclusive Boeing tours, Brown says.
The following day southeast of Seattle, Boeing opens up yet another factory for us to tour.
"Even though we joke that the 737 is the 'Baby Boeing,' it's still a large and complex machine," says Granucci.
— Workers attach wings to the fuselages.
—The planes also get "winglets" — the tiny, upward pointing wings you see on the wingtips of 737s and other airliners.
"Blinking purple is bad for us here," says Christian Ofsthus, a Boeing senior manager.
"That is so cool," I hear someone say.