CARL AZUZ, CNN STUDENT NEWS ANCHOR: The earthquake in Chile was so powerful, it might have affected time!
AZUZ: Aftershocks, still rumbling across parts of Chile.
Well, according to one scientist, the quake was so powerful it's possible that it affected the Earth's rotation.
JOE JOHNS, CNN CORRESPONDENT: The quake in Haiti was a 7.0, killing more than 200,000 people.
Why is that?
The Chile quake was 30 miles off the coast, deep under water.
AZUZ: Moving to the Middle East now.
And since he was removed from power in 2003, Iraq and Kuwait have been building ties.
Me
AZUZ: That business isn't doing so well.
And the agency says it could lose more than $200 billion in the next 10 years unless it is allowed to make some changes.
JOHN POTTER, U.S. POSTMASTER GENERAL: If we make the changes that are necessary, we can continue to provide universal service for America for decades to come.
The company says it develops over time, so it's more likely to affect vehicles that have been driven 20,000 to 30,000 miles.
The world's fastest train zooms through China at well over 200 miles per hour.
AZUZ: With the largest population in the world -- 1.3 billion people -- China is making a huge investment in helping those folks get around the country by rail.
EMILY CHANG, CNN CORRESPONDENT, BEIJING: Beijing's newest train station looks like a modern airport, and a ride on its bullet train is nearly as fast as taking a plane.
China is now home to the world's fastest train, hurtling from Wuhan to Guangzhou at more than 350 kilometers per hour.
China Southern Airlines is struggling to compete on this particular route as high-speed railways change the way Chinese people travel across this vast country.
While nowhere close to China's investment, President Obama has committed $8 billion to high-speed rail.
CHANG: Just like interstate highways transformed the United States, faster trains in China will bring infrastructure, investment and passengers to destinations deep in the countryside.
AZUZ: March is Women's History Month.
Wayne spends hundreds of hours planning and planting every year.
AZUZ: But you won't hear something like that from our two lips.