The spark that began the revolution was something called Europe: a trade agreement with the European Union that many Ukrainians saw as a chance to enter a world of free trade rather than government syndicates, and the rule of law rather than overwhelming corruption.
When President Viktor Yanukovych, after months of promised, rejected the deal in November, Ukrainians protested.
Although the Russian side promised that the loan was without conditions, Russian leaders then explained that disbursements could only follow when political stability had been established.
After weeks of peacefully tolerating beatings, torture and disappearances, some of the protesters took the fight to the police.
The Ukrainian protesters did not do what most of us would have done.
The Polish and German foreign ministers arrived to negotiate the transition that many people had wanted for weeks: a weakening of the Yanukovych's power and accelerated elections.
Yanukovych disappeared.
On Saturday the protesters gathered again in the hundreds of thousands to mourn their dead and to celebrate what they had achieved.
Russia has exercised influence in Ukraine by promising cash: The promise of 15 billion euros preceded the dictatorship laws, the promise of the release of a 2 billion tranche preceded the mass shootings.
Now Western financial aid will be needed to transform that revolution into stability.
People who risked death for the values we all claim to treasure, people who have brought a major nation back from dictatorship and to democracy deserve more than loans that will require immediate economic austerity.
The Ukrainian revolution, like any revolution, can fail.
Russian parliamentarians are now in Crimea, promising Russian citizenship to ethnic Russians there and suggesting that Russia will support a referendum on the detachment of Crimea from Ukraine and its attachment to Russia.
The cause of the Ukrainian protesters was not to change the world, but only to change their world.
If we don't understand the revolution in Ukraine, then we miss something special and unusual: a chance to support democracy.