Charles Dickens reportedly gave Edgar Allan Poe "the bird" idea for famous poem.
When British poet and novelist Thomas Hardy died on January 11, 1928, his literary contemporaries decided he was too important to be buried in his hometown's simple churchyard.
Before finding success as an author, Alger was a minister at a Unitarian Church in Brewster, Massachusetts, where he was accused of sexually assaulting two young boys.
Best known for his collection of short stories, Winesburg, Ohio, and for mentoring such literary heavyweights as Hemingway, Faulkner and Steinbeck, Anderson had a knack for unexpected exits.
Anderson became ill aboard ship and later died in a Panama hospital.
A number of pets graced the Dickens household over the years, including all manner of dogs, cats and ponies.
This same talkative bird reportedly was the inspiration for Edgar Allan Poe's famous poem, "The Raven," published four years later.
Flannery O'Connor, author of 32 short stories including "A Good Man Is Hard to Find" and "Everything That Rises Must Converge," developed a love for birds at a very young age.
O. Henry (born William Sydney Porter) may have been the master of the popular short story form, but he was far less skilled when it came to money.
But a few years later, when he came back to visit his dying wife, he was arrested and sentenced to five years in prison.
Langston Hughes
Lindsay, however, died six years later after drinking a bottle of Lysol.
Edith Wharton, winner of the Pulitzer Prize for her 1920 novel The Age of Innocence, is famous for her vivid stories and novels about upper-class society in the late 19th century.
Charlotte Bronte may have been the author of the romantic classic Jane Eyre, but she was not well served by love herself.
The elder Bronte sister's nausea was so overwhelming, in fact, that the author couldn't eat or even smell food without becoming violently ill. On March 31, 1855, a dehydrated, malnourished and severely exhausted Charlotte Bronte died at the age of 38.