...
I think there's a chance, if we keep the pressure on, Gadhafi could be thrown under the bus (by people surrounding him.)"
... (But) if we tell Gadhafi, 'Don't worry, you're not going to be removed by force,' I think that's very encouraging for Gadhafi."
"What John McCain was suggesting (in the reaction above) frankly strikes me as a very dangerous argument -- that in a place where we have clearly limited interests, clearly nonvital interests, the United States and the president should (have) an open-ended policy of military escalation and say we will do whatever it takes to get Moammar Gadhafi out of office.
"I thought he did a good job talking about the signal we would send, that we are a values-based people, and stranding by these young people in Libya will serve us well in the future.
"I think it is a great speech.
"The president's speech tonight has made things even murkier than they were before.
Isn't the danger to the people of Libya Gadhafi?"
It says limited action; we're not going to go any further than just protecting the people of Libya; we're not going to be for regime change.
"The president's policy is to assist in the removal of Moammar Gadhafi.
We're acting in a limited manner to level the playing field so the Libyan people themselves and the opposition that has formed, they'll do that job.
"I was very satisfied with his speech tonight.
...
I think the president did a great job.
"I think (Obama) ... made clear that we went in to avoid what he described as violence on a horrific scale in Benghazi; that the mandate of the U.N. coalition ... is to protect Libyan civilians.
At the same time, he made very clear that in his U.S. policy -- and the policy of many of our allies -- that Libya needs to have a new government that responds to the demands of the Libyan people, and that we will pursue every diplomatic and economic means to that end.
And furthermore, I think he made a compelling case that these early U.S. actions really have accomplished what the United States promised to do, and that was to stop Gadhafi from killing other people.
What do we do then?
What's the United States' role going to be in building a new Libya?
This is really something that should have been done four weeks ago, when it was really likely that the rebels, by virtue of ... a multilateral action, could have tipped the scales and made Gadhafi think ... he needs to get out of there.