Republicans think that young voters -- particularly Americans who were in diapers or listening to N*SYNC during the eight years that Hillary Clinton lived in the White House -- could use a refresher course on all things Clinton.
"There is a whole swath of voters out there who obviously know of Hillary Clinton and understand who the Clintons are, but they don't know of her as the politician, they don't know the specifics about her time in the White House," Kirsten Kukowski, spokeswoman for the Republican National Committee, said.
Details about the Clinton White House years is not old news for people who were in "grade school" at the time, she said.
"But, if Republicans want to spend money educating young voters about how strong the economy was under President Clinton's leadership in the 90s and how American broad-based prosperity was was at an all time high, who are we to stop them?"
"I think that is going to be a big issue in framing the debate and framing who Hillary is to those voters," Kukowski said.
Top Republican strategists, like Karl Rove, have shown how Republican might try to bring up Clinton's age and health in a campaign.
Although Democrats have called Rove "sleazy," the stepped up attacks have already had an impact on the early 2016 presidential wrangling by solidifying what Republicans have been saying for months: Hillary Clinton is who they see as the most formidable potential candidate.
But as Clinton began to raise her profile, Republicans began to step up their attacks and force a response.
Miller, whose super PAC has a cadre of researchers diving into the Clinton record, said there will be an obvious focus on what younger voters need to know about her time in the White House.
Miller added that while he doesn't think the 2016 election will be won or lost on issues like Whitewater and other Clinton White House scandals, he does think  informing young voters, especially, about them is necessary.
But defining Clinton before she has said whether she will run or not is somewhat unprecedented.
Republicans say that is only because of the unprecedented shadow campaign around Clinton right now.