Any legal issues about Bergdahl, who's been accused of desertion, will be addressed once he has returned to U.S. soil.
A senior U.S. defense official said this week that Bergdahl has not been classified a deserter and is still scheduled to be promoted to the rank of staff sergeant later this month.
Former soldiers involved in the operations to find Bergdahl asserted to CNN this week that at least six soldiers were killed in the search for Bergdahl in 2009.
Bergdahl's former team leader, former Sgt.
An Army fact-finding investigation conducted in the months after his disappearance concluded that Bergdahl left his outpost deliberately and of his own free will, according to a U.S. military official briefed on the report.
Secretary of the Army John McHugh said Tuesday that "a comprehensive, coordinated" review of Bergdahl's case will be conducted.
The review "will include speaking with Sergeant Bergdahl to better learn from him the circumstances regarding his disappearance and captivity," McHugh said.
"Given the acute urgency of the health condition of Sergeant Bergdahl, and given the President's constitutional responsibilities, it was determined that it was necessary and appropriate not to adhere to the 30-day notification requirement, because it would have potentially meant that the opportunity to get Sergeant Bergdahl would have been lost," Rice said.
But there are questions about the law itself, he added.
There's no evidence that Bergdahl helped the enemy directly, though he's certainly been used in Taliban propaganda.
But a U.S. official who has been briefed on the initial Army fact-finding investigation conducted in the months after Bergdahl disappeared told CNN that Bergdahl's commanders referred to him as "a good soldier" in that report.
Officials have yet to state the findings of their medical examination of Bergdahl following his release Saturday.
"He walked off," said former Pfc.
In fact, the former soldiers say they are so outraged that they are speaking out publicly at significant peril.
The former servicemen said they earlier signed nondisclosure agreements about the disappearance and search for Bergdahl, but they're now violating it.
America needs to know," said Gerleve, the former squad leader.
Was Bergdahl swap legal?