CARL AZUZ, CNN STUDENT NEWS ANCHOR: Now that is how you get a show poppin'!
AZUZ: The first Friday of every month, the U.S. government usually announces the current unemployment rate.
The unemployment rate only counts people who are actively looking for jobs.
AZUZ: President Obama is back in Washington after a trip to Afghanistan.
BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: This part of the world is the center of a global effort where we are going to disrupt and dismantle and defeat al Qaeda and its extremist allies, and that's why you're here.
LOTHIAN: Mr. Obama had planned on flying to Kabul to meet with President Hamid Karzai and visit U.S. embassy employees.
LOTHIAN: Thirteen hundred U.S. troops have been killed in Afghanistan since the war began.
AZUZ: Moving to the legislative branch of U.S. government and the debate over some tax cuts we've been talking about recently.
Saturday, the U.S. Senate voted not to extend the cuts for anyone, but Democratic and Republican leaders are hopeful they they can still work out a compromise.
TOMEKA JONES, CNN STUDENT NEWS: Today's Shoutout goes out to Mr. Study's social studies classes at Shallotte Middle School in Shallotte, North Carolina!
AZUZ: A new deal between the U.S. and South Korea would get rid of a lot of tariffs.
In fact, they argue that this trade agreement will actually cost U.S. jobs.
It's a little smaller than the U.S. state of Maryland, and it's home to about 3 million people.
The prime minister, Binyamin Netanyahu, says he wants the people who were affected to be able to go back to their homes or to alternative housing within days.
NICHOLI WYTOVICZ, SHORECREST HIGH SCHOOL STUDENT: I Facebook after I get home from school, and then I do my homework, and then I Facebook some more.
But for one week, there's a school district in Washington state that's going unplugged as part of a social experiment.
The teacher who came up with the idea says people are losing the ability to have face-to-face communication.
But about Friday's blog on a high school football player who got flagged after praying in the end zone, Rebecca says she would not stop pointing to the sky after scoring.
Salicia, like several of you, talked about the First Amendment and said "the player had every right to say a prayer."
AZUZ: All right, today's Before We Go segment is about someone who's just a giant baby.
Just wait 'til he's full-grown and weighs 200 pounds!
For CNN Student News, I'm Carl Azuz.