"Why are green products often more expensive than ones that don't say they are green or environmentally friendly?
There are also greener products that do not cost extra.
There are cleaning products and paints, for example, that have been certified as meeting tough environmental standards by EcoLogo or Green Seal that deliver the same high-quality performance one expects without costing any extra.
Why are other greener products still more expensive sometimes?
Any new innovative product, whether it is "greener" or not, costs extra initially.
It is also possible, however, to buy high-quality, greener products, at very good prices, at growing numbers of mainstream retail outlets.
The same is increasingly true with greener product offerings.
Legitimate environmental claims can be certified by independent outside third-party auditors.
Make sure any environmental claim is specific, backed by proof, and, preferably, verified by an independent, outside third-party.
There are certainly efforts underway to provide consumers with additional information about the environmental impacts of their purchasing decisions.
Some particularly savvy green consumers, however, want additional information beyond knowing that a product has been certified as meeting a standard.
As a result, those products are becoming more widely available for consumers too.
Now that the information is available, consumers can use the EPEAT information to make their own purchasing decisions.
There are persistent rumors of efforts underway to use the legislative power of the federal government to encourage greater transparency regarding the environmental footprint of a product and to make it easier to share that information with consumers.
Is this happening in any countries?"
Make sure you can answer the following questions about an environmental label before making a purchase:
-- Was it created by a manufacturer or a trade association to promote their own products, or was it created by an independent outside organization in an open, public, transparent process?
Make sure the standard covers the environmental issues you and the environmental community are most concerned about.
Other programs -- including EcoLogo, Green Seal, and the Chlorine Free Products Association -- independently review product test data and visit the manufacturing facilities to ensure compliance with the standard.