But here's what I also know: You wish you could once and for all get your financial house in order.
Seventy-eight percent said it is very important that they not become a financial burden to their loved ones, but just 24 percent are confident they can pull that off.
Track your spending Why it's important: You know the big-ticket expenses in your life, but all the smaller spending can also be a killer.
Input your average monthly expenses, and get honest about where your money is going.
Check your credit profile Why it's important: Your credit score affects the interest rates you're offered on credit cards and loans, can be used to vet your job application, and in some states may influence your insurance premiums.
Do this now: Go to AnnualCreditReport.com to get your free credit reports from the three credit bureaus: Equifax, Experian, and TransUnion.
Cut Spending by 10 Percent Why it's important: The median pay raise for 2010 is expected to be around 3 percent (the lowest forecast in 25 years).
Do this now: Once you input your income and outflow into the Expense Sheet on my Web site, print it out and circle every expense that is a want (not a need), then figure out how to reduce or eliminate it.
Do this now: Go to InsWeb.com and NetQuote.com to find premium quotes from a variety of home and auto insurers.
(But do this only if you have an emergency savings fund that can cover the cost of the deductible.
Do this now: Go to FindaCreditUnion.com and look for one that is part of the federal insurance program run by the National Credit Union Administration (go to NCUA.gov and click on Consumer Share Insurance Information and Tool Kit to check).
Boost emergency fund to cover 8 months of living expenses Why it's important: By now I am sure you have started saving.
Do this now: Go to MyFDICInsurance.gov for banks and NCUA.gov for credit unions to verify that your emergency fund is tucked away at an institution that is federally insured.
Roll over 401(k)s from former employers into an IRA Why it's important: Once you leave a job, you can move your 401(k) to a brokerage or fund firm.
Do this now: Don't get thrown by high minimums.
Leave your retirement funds alone Why it's important: Can't handle the mortgage?
Under "current principal," input the value of your 401(k).
The advantage is that money in a Roth can be withdrawn in retirement with no tax due.
Do this now: Convert in 2010 and you can spread your tax bill over the next two years.
TM & © 2011 Harpo Productions, Inc. All Rights Reserved.