"The problem is, even after this debate, I don't think people truly understand the similarities and the differences in what these candidates are proposing for health care."
Discussing how "middle-income Americans have been buried" financially under the president's policies, Republican challenger Mitt Romney said health care costs have gone up by $2,500 a family.
But experts say the increases have not been due to policy, but because of the rising cost of health care.
Rising health care costs are a significant problem, though.
Obama's first specific reference to health care described how the administration pursued medical fraud in Medicare and Medicaid "more aggressively than ever before," which saved the system tens of billions of dollars.
They have saved taxpayers billions; however, a Government Accountability Office investigation concluded that while progress has been made under Obama, more could be done.
Sending Medicaid back to the states would save the federal government money, but cost states more and adversely impact those using the benefits.
It would accomplish this by converting the program into a block grant that would in large part shift costs to the states, which Romney argued would give states more flexibility to do what they deem best to help their Medicaid population.
Health care costs would go up significantly to accommodate this 20% increase in the number of people over 60 who will need more health care.
Romney's accusation that Obama cut Medicare by $716 billion is misleading.
In the debate, Romney said 10 times that Obama was paying for his health care package by taking the money from Medicare recipients' pockets, cutting $716 billion out of the program.
That means Medicare would cost the government more.
Hospitals and health care providers will, but that's what they agreed to in exchange for the Affordable Care Act's mandate that people have health insurance.
The candidates agreed during the debate that more needs to be done to control the cost of health care.
Obama praised the Cleveland Clinic as a model for new ways of controlling the cost of care.
The team of doctors also provides preventive care.
An analysis done by the Dartmouth Atlas of Health Care found that the Cleveland Clinic did treat Medicare patients for tens of thousands of dollars less than many other medical centers.
These integrated group plans work well and the ongoing preventive care they provide -- working with doctors, nutritionists, nurses, nurse practitioners and the rest -- ultimately save on costs."