Washington (CNN) -- Leaders of the different branches of the U.S. armed forces gave sharply divergent answers to the Senate Armed Services Committee on Friday when asked whether the military's controversial "don't ask, don't tell" policy should be repealed, and what the consequences of a repeal might be.
Gen. James Cartwright, the vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said he believes implementation of a repeal would involve a "manageable risk with regard to military effectiveness."
The service chiefs were summoned to testify in the wake of a newly released Pentagon study which concluded that allowing openly gay or lesbian troops to serve in the military would have little lasting impact on the U.S. armed forces.
Levin said there was greater resistance to allowing gays and lesbians to serve openly in the British and Canadian militaries than there is in U.S. armed forces today.
"Having reviewed the Pentagon report, having spoken to active and retired military service members, and having discussed the matter privately with Defense Secretary (Robert) Gates and others, I accept the findings of the report and support repeal based on (Gates') recommendations that repeal will be implemented only when the battle effectiveness of the forces is assured and proper preparations have been completed."
"Should repeal occur, some soldiers and Marines may want separate shower facilities.
Now, with Armed Service Committee hearings over, Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nevada, must decide whether to keep legislative language calling for a repeal in a larger Defense authorization bill or strip it off for a separate vote.
"I think given the testimony by members of the military that they still have serious reservations about repealing 'don't ask, don't tell,' Democrats have to be very concerned about the chances for a full repeal this session," said Wendy Schiller, a Brown University political scientist.
"Given a choice between emphasizing and winning policy battles on the economy and allowing gays to serve openly in the military, the good money bet is on the economy," she said.