Washington (CNN) -- On the eve of the inauguration, President Barack Obama's second term may also be America's second chance.
What it does differently this time around and the decisions the people make, experts say, will speak to the kind of America that emerges during the next four years.
"He's going to be unlike most second term presidents in that he will be far more assertive than he was in his first term.
It a newly combative tone, he called it "absurd" for the federal government not to pay "bills that have already been racked up" and said he will not negotiate "with a gun at the head of the American people."
Over the next four years, the country will also get a chance to see whether the Affordable Care Act -- or "Obamacare" -- is a positive or negative step for the nation.
"If the economy becomes more robust you will have no doubt he will point back and say see that's what I was doing," said Julian Zelizer, a professor of history and public affairs at Princeton University and CNN contributor.
"Americans will be realistic, just as those in government need to be realistic," Schmuhl said of citizens' likely approach to their own finances over the next four years.
"Going into the second term, the fiscal situation will continue the agenda and the discussion," he said.
According to Pew Research Center and Gallup polls, Americans were none too impressed with how lawmakers handled the negotiations or the deal that was struck.
The new Congress will also consider raising the nation's debt ceiling, or the ability of the U.S. Treasury to borrow money to pay America's bills.
Immigration reform, another White House priority, will also stoke ideological differences and test the demographic shifts in Congress.
But women and minorities are far outnumbered and outranked by white males on some of the most powerful congressional committees.
But look first to the 2014 midterms and then the 2016 presidential election to see if the people signal continued frustration with the current regime -- in Congress and in the White House -- or demonstrate through the power of their vote that they feel the nation has finally turned the corner.