Once aboard the German carrier's A346, he was led to his first-class suite, where a spacious leather seat and ottoman ran the length of four airplane windows and various compartments overflowed with noise-canceling headphones, menus, pajamas and slippers.
The Dubai-based carrier delivers on its promise—thus far, it's the only airline to offer showers for first-class passengers aboard its fleet of 21 A380 jets.
Swiss' new first class, launched in 2009, offers a spacious executive desk for one that converts to a comfortable dining table for two (for those who want dinner company); Lufthansa added cabin humidifiers, and trumped the seat-to-flatbed race by adding both a flatbed and a chair to each first-class suite on their 747s.
The fully encapsulated cabins, where you can dine on lobster thermidor and rack of lamb, feature beds accented with hand-stitched Italian leather, trimmed in burrwood and topped with a plush mattress and Givenchy bedding.
That's the genius behind Swiss's new first-class cabin.
Massage-enabled leather seats convert to flatbeds, which are topped by plush mattresses after dinner.
Voted best first class two years in a row by airline-review website Skytrax, Etihad's Diamond first-class suites are arranged in a one-one configuration, each individually sealed off behind Jaali screen--style sliding doors.
At first glance, the JAL Suites aboard the carrier's 777s seem to offer nothing new.
Lufthansa recently trumped the industry's seat-to-flatbed race by halving the number of first-class suites aboard its 747s and giving each a seat and a bed.
A private entrance leads to the first-class cabin on Cathay's 777s, where just six tranquil pods create a spacious herringbone layout that optimizes passenger privacy.
First-class washrooms also feature the industry's first in-air electronic bidet toilets.
In first class, the redesign has meant the comfy, elegant Kosmo Suites -- 83-inch-long compartments encased in wood-grained shells, with leather interiors in cream and sea-green hues.
Do you fly first class?
Share your thoughts in the comments below.