Henryville, Indiana (CNN) -- Even as potent winds and heavy rains lingered in spots, residents through huge swaths of the eastern United States spent Saturday trying to come to grips with vicious storms that obliterated communities, reduced scores of homes to rubble and left at least 37 people dead.
The National Weather Service received two reports of tornadoes Saturday in Lanier County, which is about 30 miles north of the Florida border.
In hard-hit Henryville, Indiana, rescuers combed for survivors after a twister ripped through the town 20 miles north of Louisville.
Joe Sullivan, a National Weather Service meteorologist, said the tornado that swept through that and other Southern Indiana communities was an EF-4 -- meaning it had sustained winds of between 166 and 200 mph, putting it in the top 2% of all tornadoes in terms of strength.
"There are a lot of people who can't sit down on their own couch this evening," Goodin said.
A 20-month-old girl was found alive, alone and injured in a field in Salem, about 20 miles south of Henryville, said Maj. Chuck Adams, a sheriff's department spokesman.
It was unclear how many people were missing in Henryville, as well as the towns of Chelsea, Paynesville and Marysville -- all hit by tornadoes -- because authorities are still trying to wrap their arms around the sheer amount of devastation, Adams said.
His own home, he said, also was gone.
Roughly 250 National Guard troops have been called in to provide aid and security in Henryville, Marysville and elsewhere, said Sgt.
Mike Lacy, with Morgan County's emergency management agency, reported that several people were rescued -- including one man trapped under up to 10 feet of debris -- though four died as a result of the storm across the county.
A tornado was believed to have struck north Georgia's Paulding County, damaging two elementary schools, a small local airfield and an undetermined number of homes, said Ashley Henson, a sheriff's spokesman.
"Thank goodness there were actually no injuries or fatalities reported in the Paulding County area," he said.
Around Charlotte, North Carolina, at least three people were injured, said Capt.
John Kasich said after touring damage in those and other nearby towns.
"We're knocked down, but we're not knocked out," he said.