President Barack Obama didn't know the United States was collecting communications of allied leaders such as German Chancellor Angela Merkel, the chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee said on Monday.
Lawmakers were urged not to discuss the classified program for fear it would hurt national security, the documents show.
Spain became the latest to protest, summoning U.S. Ambssador James Costos for a Madrid meeting Monday to discuss an El Pais newspaper report that quoted unnamed sources as saying the NSA spied on Spanish officials and politicians.
Obama did not learn until recently of the NSA surveillance of other world leaders, including allies, a senior administration official told CNN on Monday.
Without confirming any of the news reports about alleged U.S. spying on foreign leaders, Carney also said that also was being addressed.
In particular, the official said the White House didn't learn of all of the surveillance programs until its internal review over the summer, after which some of them were stopped.
"I really doubt he had to sign off on something like that or get into the details," said a former senior administration official who worked on national security for the Obama White House.
Also Monday, Sen. Susan Collins, a member of the Senate Intelligence Committee, said she knew of "no justification for the Administration's collection of intelligence on the leaders of our closest allies," such as Merkel.
The Spanish newspaper El Mundo reported Monday that the NSA collected data from 60 million phone calls in Spain in one 30-day period.
The 60 million calls were not recorded, but the NSA collected serial numbers of devices, phone numbers, locations and durations of calls, the newspaper said.
"We will continue to confer with our allies, such as Spain, through our regular diplomatic channels to address the concerns that they have raised," the Costos statement said.
The French daily newspaper Le Monde reported last week on claims that the NSA intercepted more than 70 million phone calls in France in 30 days.