(CNN) -- Colombian and Mexican drug cartels have jumped the Atlantic Ocean and expanded into West Africa, working closely with local criminal gangs to carve out a staging area for an assault on the lucrative European market.
"The same organizations that we investigate in Central and South America that are involved in drug activity toward the United States are engaged in this trafficking in Western Africa," said Russell Benson, the Drug Enforcement Agency regional director for Europe and Africa.
While the European market has been expanding, use in the United States has declined from its peak in the 1980s, the U.N. Office of Drugs and Crime said in its 2009 annual report, issued in July.
About 27 percent of the cocaine that entered Europe in 2006 came from Africa, the United Nations said.
"It's a significant market for them to exploit," Benson said.
So the Colombian and Mexican cartels have discovered that it's much easier to smuggle large loads into West Africa and then break that up into smaller shipments to the continent -- mostly Spain, the United Kingdom and France.
Governments are weak and ineffective and, as a top DEA chief testified to the U.S. Senate this summer, officials are often corrupt.
"This area of the world is ripe," Bagley said.
Local police also are vastly outgunned.
They just recently received six sets of handcuffs from the U.K., which were badly needed.
West Africa also is particularly attractive to traffickers because it is near "the soft underbelly of Europe," said retired four-star Army Gen. Barry McCaffrey, who was drug policy director for President Clinton.
Most of the cocaine shipments cross the Atlantic in large "mother ships" and then are off-loaded to small vessels near the coastline, the United Nations said.
A report issued in July by the Government Accountability Office said traffickers use go-fast boats, fishing vessels and commercial shipping containers as the primary means of smuggling cocaine out of Venezuela.
In 2004, the report said, authorities tracked 109 suspect flights out of Venezuela.
The cartels also have aligned themselves with terrorists, Harrigan said.
"The profit potential is such that the FARC is one of the largest cocaine-trafficking operations globally and is also a terrorist organization," he said.
Still, Bagley said, traffickers and terrorists may use some of the same criminal networks.
The U.N. report offers some hope, saying that cocaine seizures in Europe peaked in 2006 and topped out in West Africa in 2007.
For example, authorities seized 11 large shipments in Africa in 2007, four in 2008 and none so far this year.
"In the last three or four years, it's increased quite dramatically," he said.