Through various evolutions, the ATP World Tour Finals is now a $5 million tournament that crowns a grueling, long year.
World No.1 Novak Djokovic will seek to top off an amazing season already bulging with three grand slam titles, while defending champion Federer is seeking a record sixth victory in the tournament.
Rafael Nadal: The 10-time grand slam champion has never won this title, losing to Roger Federer in last year's final.
The Spaniard has played second fiddle to Djokovic for much of 2011, losing his top ranking after the Serb beat him in the finals of Wimbledon and the U.S. Open as well as in four Masters 1000 tournaments.
5's best showing in the finals is a runner-up spot to Federer in the 2007 event in Shanghai.
Best known for reaching the 2010 Wimbledon final, this year Berdych has won the China Open title and beat Murray in November's Paris Masters quarterfinals before losing to Federer.
Players gain points from playing in the four grand slams, ATP World Tour events including eight Masters Series tournaments, and World Group singles matches in the Davis Cup teams competition.
The top seven players in the rankings are automatic qualifiers, and the eighth spot is reserved for any grand slam winner not in those places -- a rare occurrence, unless injury strikes.
The players are divided into two groups of four and play each other once in a round-robin format, before the top two in each pool advance to the semifinals.
If players are tied on the same number of victories, then the total sets won decides -- if this is also equal then it goes down to total match points.
The Association of Tennis Professionals (ATP) took over the running of the men's tour from 1990 and the event evolved into the ATP Tour Championship, but the ITF promoted a rival Grand Slam Cup for the top-16 players with the best records in the four majors until 1999.
The doubles event, which used to take place at a different venue, has been staged in tandem with the singles since Houston in 2003.