Benghazi, Libya (CNN) -- Doctors at a field hospital in Martyrs Square in Zawiya said Friday that 17 people were killed and another 150 were wounded when government forces attacked the city.
He added that he had ordered an end to the violence there, but his order upset his security forces.
"These are our children," he said.
"If you want to pit against one another, then it's up to you," he said.
In an apparent allusion to calls for government officials to be held accountable for violence against Libyan civilians, Gadhafi said it is bin Laden who should be prosecuted.
"These acts cannot happen by Libyan men," he said.
"I believe Zawiya will toe the line," he said, then directed his final comment to the city's residents themselves.
A formerly pro-government newspaper in Libya reported Thursday that African mercenaries were shooting at unarmed civilians in Tajura, about 25 miles east of Tripoli.
The woman said unarmed people had been fired on indiscriminately.
"People are crying," she said, calling for help from the world.
The hospital in Zawiya is "a disaster," she said, adding that some shooters had entered the hospital and insisted that no one was killed.
Witnesses and reports also said the town of Az Zintan was under opposition control.
Gunfire erupted at dawn Thursday as chanting crowds dispersed.
She said she was risking her life by talking to a reporter.
Continuing a stream of defections among Libyan diplomats, the ambassador to Jordan, Mohammed Hassan Al Barghathi, said Thursday he was resigning because of the unrest.
The resolution would condemn "the massive and unacceptable violence currently being perpetrated in this country," French Foreign Minister Michele Alliot-Marie said Thursday in a statement.
A ferry chartered by the United States to evacuate U.S. citizens remained in port in Tripoli because of bad weather, diplomatic sources said.
CNN's Richard Roth, Saad Abedine, Waffa Munayyer, Pam Benson, Ben Brumfield, Amir Ahmed, Ingrid Formanek, Eve Bower, Salma Abdelaziz, Mitra Mobasherat and Jaime FlorCruz contributed to this report.