CARL AZUZ, CNN STUDENT NEWS ANCHOR: The start of a new month, the start of a new day of CNN Student News!
And the comparison gets even worse when you go back a little farther.
Home prices affect a lot of other industries -- like banks, like construction -- so that's one of the big indicators that experts use to figure out how the U.S. economy is doing.
And one expert says it doesn't look like that's going to change any time soon.
That's a bacteria that can be transmitted through contaminated food or water, especially raw vegetables.
They think it could be traced back to produce from Spain.
STAN CASE, CNN STUDENT NEWS: Time for the Shoutout!
AZUZ: The World Health Organization says that radiation from cell phones could possibly cause cancer.
One expert says it's hard because it can take several decades of exposure to see if there are any consequences.
AZUZ: Recovery efforts are getting started in Joplin, Missouri, and help is coming from some unexpected places.
MORGAN SCHUTTERS, KODE REPORTER: Katie Wood graduated from Joplin High School just an hour before the tornado hit.
SCHUTTERS: But Joplin High School sophomore Chanci McGowen still has the rest of her high school career ahead of her, as she looks at what is left in shambles.
SCHUTTERS: McGowen is one of many students who lost both.
Eight people in the Joplin R-8 School District are confirmed dead: seven students and one staff member.
Me
AZUZ: The Grand Canyon's a major vacation destination.
The nearly 5 million people who go there every year prove that.
According to a survey by Expedia, workers in Great Britain got an average of 28 days' vacation last year.
With the economy still recovering, some workers are just happy to have a job to go to every day.
We're afraid of the work that's waiting for us when we get back from vacation.
According to a new survey, one out of every five people in the United States would fail a driving test if they had to take one today.
Last year, 38 million people -- one million more -- would have failed.
AZUZ: Teachers, we know a lot of you get our daily e-mail.
AZUZ: Before we go, we're checking out a barnyard brawl.
AZUZ: Those guys just look like they have baaaaad attitudes.
But now that the whole thing's over, I bet they felt sheepish about causing such a problem.
For CNN Student News, I'm Carl Azuz.