(MentalFloss.com) -- As Napoleon Bonaparte expanded his new French Empire and conquered much of Western Europe, he doled out the spoils of war to his friends and family, whether they wanted it or not.
After Napoleon's defeat and forced exile, the Bonaparte name wasn't winning Joseph any friends in Europe, so he fled to the United States under an assumed and with the crown jewels of Spain stashed in his suitcase.
There, Joseph Bonaparte, former King of Naples and Spain, brother of Napoleon I, Emperor of France, took the title of Comte de Survilliers (though his American neighbors and friends still called him Mr. Bonaparte and referred to his home as "Bonaparte's Park") and went into quiet, suburban exile.
Bonaparte's home became a social hub for both his New Jersey neighbors, who liked to spend quiet afternoons browsing his library, and American and European elites.
Bonaparte had met Annette, the 18-year-old, French-speaking daughter of distinguished Virginia merchants, while he was shopping for suspenders at her mother's shop in Philadelphia.
"All the furniture, statues, pictures, money, plate gold, jewels, linen, books, and in short, everything that was not consumed, has been most scrupulously delivered into the hands of the people of my house.
During his years at Point Breeze, Bonaparte believed he had a run-in with one of the Garden State's most infamous residents -- the Jersey Devil.
The beastly baby screeched and flew out the window, making its home in the Barrens and haunting and harassing the people who lived there.
As Bonaparte recounted the story, he was hunting alone in the woods near his estate when he saw some peculiar tracks on the ground.
It had a long neck, wings, legs like a crane with horse's hooves at the end, stumpy arms with paws and a face like a horse or a camel.
Until he returned to Europe, Bonaparte is said to have kept a sharp eye out for the Devil whenever he was in the woods, hoping to kill it and take the body as a trophy.
She was already pregnant when Jérôme left the U.S. and gave birth to another American Bonaparte.
All rights reserved.