(CNN) -- A Somali Islamist militant movement on Monday claimed responsibility for a trio of bombings that killed at least 74 people Sunday at two venues in the Ugandan capital, Kampala, where crowds had gathered to watch the World Cup final.
Rage said young suicide bombers carried out the attacks but did not specify their nationalities.
Earlier Monday, Sheikh Abu Al Zubeir, identified as "the emir of Al-Shabaab in Somalia," said in an Arabic website posting, "My message to the Ugandan and Burundian nations is that you will be the target for our retribution to the massacres perpetrated against the Somali men, women and children in Mogadishu by your forces."
All flags on public buildings will be lowered to half-staff during the mourning period, the statement said.
Kayihura said he could not confirm that Al-Shabaab was responsible, but said the nature of the explosives used were consistent with the group.
said Museveni, who on Monday visited a rugby sports center where two of the blasts occurred Sunday.
The second one at the rugby club was the most severe, said the official, who did not want to be identified because he was not authorized to speak to the media due to the sensitivity of the situation.
In a post on its website, the organization Invisible Children said Henn was in the country working with Ugandan students.
The State Department is assisting in their medical evacuation, he said.
Museveni said, "We wish to condemn the criminality of these attacks.
"The fact that the victims were enjoying the World Cup reveals the evil and ugly nature of the perpetrators and the need to uproot from [the] region those who do not value the sanctity of human life," the statement said.
My friends and I ran into the car and drove off."
"I was watching the game with my brother at the rugby center," said Ian Lule, who was among a group gathered at a city hospital.
Muhumuza said when the game ended, he went to the rugby center.
I'm very sad and I was very touched."
Kayihura said the bombings could have been avoided if the two venues had used security measures such as metal detectors and guards.