(CNN) -- It was early evening when Lee Ferrero got in his car to make the trip home from a meeting for work.
A visit to the Mayo Clinic in Scottsdale, Arizona, showed Ferrero was in the beginning stages of Alzheimer's disease, a form of dementia.
After his trip to Mayo, Ferrero's wife insisted he get a professional driving evaluation to make sure he was safe to drive.
Now 64, he doesn't want to sit home all the time, and still drives and walks around.
Kallmyer advises families that there's no way to keep an eye on someone 24-7, but that there are some steps they can take to decrease the chances their loved one will wander.
Lawrence Schonfeld, an Alzheimer's expert, has noticed sometimes families forget that wandering is a huge risk because they're so overwhelmed with other aspects of Alzheimer's disease.
Wandering can happen at any time, but it's more likely in certain situations, such as when someone with dementia is in unfamiliar surroundings.
If your loved one says, "It's time to go to work," she might truly be headed out the door in a few minutes.
"If they say they want to go to work, tell them 'OK let's go see if we can find your shoes,'" Schonfeld suggests.
You can also put a lock toward the bottom of the door; Kallmyer says people with dementia won't think to look for a lock in such an unusual place.
Sometimes people with dementia will go wandering off in search of the bathroom or a glass of water and get distracted and actually leave the house.
The Mayo Clinic suggests putting a picture of a toilet on the door to the bathroom or food on the door to the kitchen, so they can more easily find what they need.
You can also enroll your loved one in an adult day care program so they'll have interesting activities.
Even if they're not tired, the social engagement of the walk might be enough to keep them from wandering in search of company.
Create a path through the rooms of your house as a place for your loved one to wander, or a circular trail through a fenced backyard, the Mayo Clinic advises.
The Alzheimer's Association has an overview of electronic devices that can help keep track of Alzheimer's patients, and the association also has information about the ComfortZone and other safety products it sells.
Many families aren't sure they can safely keep their loved one with dementia at home.
"Do they have electronic devices to keep track of people who wander?
Aaron Cooper and John Bonifield contributed to this report.