In Gaza City, thousands of people took part in a celebration that was not so much of a military victory as a psychological one.
"I think people feel now that the only way to push Israel to give concessions is resistance," said Ghazi Hamad, a senior Hamas official, who cited Israel's agreement to Wednesday's cease-fire as vindication of Hamas' struggle.
Hamas has also shown that its rockets have improved and that it is not as vulnerable to Israeli airstrikes as it was during the "Cast Lead" Operation four years ago, when more than 1,400 Palestinians were killed.
Palestinian leaders sought to cast the cease-fire as a catalyst toward uniting their divided factions, while Israelis said they were happy for quiet after the shelling and counterstrikes.
"The victory of Gaza is a solid truth, not a phenomenon," Haniyeh said.
At least six Israelis were killed, including a soldier who died Thursday of wounds suffered Wednesday just before the cease-fire took hold, the Israel Defense Forces said.
The report said Morsy's government had demonstrated pragmatism in negotiating the cease-fire and presented Israel and Hamas with the opportunity to reset expectations because it had credibility among Islamists.
Hamas' military wing, the al Qassam brigade, said it fired 1,573 rockets toward Israel during the hostilities, including three shot toward Jerusalem.
"You must remember, Hamas, unfortunately, is the enemy of peace," said the spokesman, Mark Regev.
At the same time, Regev said Israel has called on Palestinian leaders to restart peace talks and was hoping for a positive response soon.
Since the cease-fire was declared, three rockets have been launched from Gaza into Israel, the IDF said Thursday.
It also calls for the Palestinian factions to cease all hostilities from Gaza against Israel, including the firing of rockets and border attacks.
Israel said its intent was to end rocket attacks on southern Israel from inside Gaza by degrading Palestinian capabilities.
On Friday, Gaza was quiet again.