Stepfather Ian Rigby said Drummer Lee Rigby was a "precious gift" who had always wanted to serve in the army and was a devoted family man.
"I just want to say that I love Lee, I always will, and I'm proud to be his wife," said Rebecca Rigby, sobbing.
A note signed by two army cadets, reads: "I understand the great lengths you would have gone to to protect our British people.
One elderly man, using a cane, had tears in his eyes as he walked, shaking his head, up and down the flowers for half an hour.
A man sharply dressed in a suit and tie brought his toddler son to drop off flowers, each placing their blooms next to the army boots.
Help for Heroes said Friday it had been "overwhelmed with people spontaneously showing their support for the Armed Forces" since the news broke.
One of the two, who approached a man filming the gory scene in the Woolwich neighborhood, suggested that Rigby had been targeted only "because Muslims are dying daily" at the hands of British troops like him.
Two women arrested Thursday, ages 29 and 31, have been released without being charged, police said Friday.
Abu Baraa blamed Wednesday's attack not on his friend Michael Adebolajo -- who he says is the bloody, cleaver-wielding man shown talking in the ITN video -- but on the British government and said there may be more attacks.
British Muslim radical leader Anjem Choudary told CNN on Thursday that he knew Adebolajo, noting the suspect attended demonstrations and a few lectures organized by Choudary's group Al-Muhajiroun.
One talk Adebolajo attended was at a Woolwich community center, he said, noting the group met in such locations because they were not welcomed in mosques.
The two injured suspects remained in stable condition at separate South London hospitals Friday, the Metropolitan Police said.
An additional 1,200 police are now on London's streets to reassure the public, police said Thursday.
And on Wednesday night in Essex, a man with two knives was arrested after throwing a smoke grenade at the Al Falah Braintree Islamic Center and demanding someone come outside to answer to the Woolwich slaying, said the mosque's secretary, Sikander Sleemy.
Nearly 100 senior British imams together issued a statement sharply condemning the "sick and barbaric" killing, which they said had spurred "hate-fueled individuals" to attack mosques and Muslims.
CNN's Greg Botelho, Dan Rivers, Jonathan Wald, Carol Jordan, Atika Shubert, Erin McLaughlin and Richard Allen Greene contributed to this report.