NEW YORK (CNN) -- The man tapped as Afghanistan's next intelligence chief faces allegations of drug trafficking and torture that stem from his work as a powerful official in the rough-and-tumble Taliban-birthplace of Kandahar, according to testimony from a top Canadian diplomat and other sources familiar with the new appointee.
Much of the concern stems from the testimony of Richard Colvin, Canada's former deputy ambassador to Afghanistan, who worked directly with Khalid while he was governor of Kandahar from 2005 to 2008.
When asked, he had sort of justifications for it, but he was known to personally torture people in that dungeon," said Colvin.
Canada's forces had been largely deployed to Kandahar, considered the Taliban heartland, which borders Pakistan and is thought to be essential to Afghan national security.
But Human Rights Watch weighed in on Friday and called on the Afghan president to "drop reported plans to appoint a senior official linked to torture," referring to Khalid.
But it may have also cast Khalid as a more prominent figure leading up to the nation's presidential elections, which are slated for 2014.
Moving him up to a more prominent and responsible position would advance that possibility," said Chayes, who first met Khalid when he was appointed as Kandahar governor in 2005.
He later worked in conjunction with U.S. Special Forces in southern Afghanistan, according to a former senior Afghan official, who declined to be named, citing security concerns.
"Yes, there were people beneath him who made mistakes, but I have no evidence that he was directly involved," he said.
Afghan also noted that the regional NDS chief reported directly to both Kabul headquarters and to Khalid, a practice thought to be commonplace in Afghanistan.
For instance, a former Kandahar governor -- prior to Khalid -- had once maintained a private prison in Kandahar City across from his office, said Afghan, who noted residents were "constantly complaining to us" that they or their friends or their family members had been tortured.
Meanwhile, Karzai on Sunday also floated replacement possibilities at the Ministries of Defense and Interior, which have been vacant for weeks.
"This is classic Karzai, and trial balloon floating," said Stephen Biddle, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations.
But his moves have also raised new questions about Afghanistan's rising political players, particularly those expected to take over in the wake of the NATO withdrawal.