In recent weeks, the Eurovision Song Contest finals, which take place Saturday, have inspired clashes on the streets of the capital, Baku, between Azerbaijani police and opposition activists, and accusations by state-controlled media in Azerbaijan that a German "conspiracy" was waging an "information war" against the hosts.
A frothy, kitsch spectacle to some, Eurovision has long been a forum for heated geopolitical grandstanding, with allegations of bloc voting and political skulduggery dogging the contest for years.
But the notion there's something being worked out there that's bigger than song is what gives the contest its interest."
Fricker says that, much like the avowedly apolitical Olympic Games, the contest has become an important political forum because of its competitive nature, and the huge television audience it commands.
Since 2001, wins for Estonia, Latvia, Turkey, Ukraine, Serbia, Russia and Azerbaijan have seen the "New Europe" dominate the contest.
"They started to realize they can use the contest as a platform to reclaim their European heritage, and show themselves in the best possible light," he said.
Dr Derek Gatherer's analysis of Eurovision voting patterns between 1999 and 2005 concluded that bloc voting in the contest had increased.
By contrast, France, the UK, Germany, Spain and Italy -- the so-called Big Five who make the biggest financial contributions to the contest, and are given an automatic place in the final ---- did not belong to a bloc, and so had not won since the UK's victory in 1997, according to Gatherer.
John Kennedy O'Connor, author of "The Eurovision Song Contest: The Official History" said he did not believe any organized tactical or political voting occurred, as the contest's current judging format -- a mixture of public televoting and national judging panels -- made it "virtually impossible" to rig results.
He said the reason the Big Five countries tended to fare less successfully was because, from the viewing public through to the organizers, they treated the contest "as a bit of a joke."
But Gluhovic said this was only partly true, as it was "a bit of a myth" that the average Eastern European was much more invested in the competition than their Western European counterparts.