I don't want to hurt my children," the Chinese woman told CNN Wednesday as she waited in Kuala Lumpur for evidence about what happened to her husband and the 238 others who were aboard Malaysia Airlines Flight 370.
Malaysian officials say they can tell you how Flight 370 ended.
In Beijing, outraged family members marched to the Malaysian Embassy to denounce the airline, the country and just about everything involved with an investigation that has transfixed the world and vexed experts.
"They have been hiding the truth," she said.
Malaysia Airlines says it is giving the families all the information it can and is sharing it as quickly as possible.
Commercial satellite data from a U.S. company, first analyzed by Australian officials, as well as satellite data from China and France, have turned up evidence of debris bobbing in the general area where authorities believe the plane went down.
After bad weather halted the hunt for a day, searching resumed Wednesday, the Australian Maritime Safety Authority said.
A Chinese plane took off for the search area in the Indian Ocean at 5 a.m. Wednesday (5 p.m.
Twelve aircraft will be part of the search, Australian officials said.
"With eight hours of flying to and from the search region, the fleet of P-3 Orion aircraft and other military aircraft have only a precious few hours to scour the search tracks they have been given," Australian Defence Minister David Johnston said.
He said the analysis was based on sophisticated mathematics calculating how long it took signals from a transmitter on the plane to reach an orbiting Inmarsat communications satellite.
The analysis shows that the plane didn't answer a ping from the satellite ground station at 9:15 a.m. (8:15 p.m.
That partial ping could be a key detail that helps investigators unravel what happened, experts said Tuesday.
It involves agencies with "expertise in satellite communications and aircraft performance," he said.
Malaysian authorities followed up with briefings for families in Beijing and Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
Malaysian officials said they are doing all they can.
Malaysia Airlines said Tuesday it has offered family members financial support of $5,000 for each passenger aboard the ill-fated flight and was preparing to make additional payments as the prolonged search continues.
CNN's Jethro Mullen reported and wrote from Hong Kong; CNN's Sara Sidner and Mitra Mobasherat reported from Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia; Catherine E. Shoichet and Michael Pearson from Atlanta; Pauline Chiou, David McKenzie, Jaime A. FlorCruz, Connie Young and Yuli Yang contributed from Beijing; Kyung Lah contributed from Perth, Australia.