Washington (CNN)This isn't how House Speaker John Boehner wanted to start 2015.
Although he already got the nod to keep his post by the House Republican conference after the midterms in November, Boehner doesn't officially get the gavel again until a majority of members vote for him on the House floor on Tuesday.
Two years ago, Boehner faced a similar, poorly organized effort when a dozen House Republicans backed other candidates or declined to vote for him.
Kentucky Republican Rep. Tom Massie told reporters he opposed Boehner not because he wasn't conservative enough, but because he failed to give members enough input into legislation like the massive spending bill that passed in December.
Massie estimated there were between 10 and 50 House Republicans who could back an alternative to Boehner.
Even Texas Rep. Roger Williams, who told CNN he didn't always support Boehner, said he thought the Speaker would overcome the challenge, and that he deserved a chance to shepherd a conservative agenda through a new session.
But he made a general pitch to his fellow Republicans on the need to stay united in the new Congress, according to several GOP members who attended the session.
Still, some outside groups are trying to whip up a grassroots campaign to get conservative activists to call in and demand members vote against Boehner.
"We had an election for Speaker in November and no one opposed John Boehner.
White House Press Secretary Josh Earnest, asked Monday whether Scalise should stay, took a jab at the GOP, saying who Republicans choose as their elected leaders "says a lot about who the conference is and what their priorities and values are."
As the former chair of a group of influential House conservatives, Scalise is viewed as Boehner's bridge to those on the right, so any effort to push him out could hurt the Speaker at a time he needs to hold conservative support to keep his own job.
North Carolina Republican Sen. Richard Burr, who is a close personal friend of Boehner's said the Speaker will have to guide House members to concentrate on things that are doable.