"I think it is loud and clear from everybody in Egypt that Mubarak has to leave today, and it is nonnegotiable for every Egyptian.
People have been saying or demonstrating for him to leave.
-- Edward Walker, former U.S. ambassador to Egypt, "State of the Union"
"So I think what we need to do now is to lay out a plan for Mubarak to lift the state of emergency, announce that elections -- free and fair -- will be held in September, which were already planned, allow an open and free democratic process, which I think we could have some confidence if it was an open process that you would see a free and fair election and that we make sure that the aspirations of the Egyptian people are realized finally."
"People in Egypt have shown during this time a great deal of solidarity, a great deal of desire to see their country develop and prosper.
And I'm not prepared to comment on what kind of democratic process the Egyptian people can construct for themselves.
But we obviously want to see people who are truly committed to democracy, not to imposing any ideology on Egyptians, and therefore we would like to encourage that people who have been the voice of protests and been the voice of civil society be the ones at the table trying to design what would be an orderly transition to meet the democratic and economic needs of the people."
"What's important to us is Egypt, it's not Mubarak.
"I think that President Mubarak, he knows what's going on in his own country.
-- McCain, "State of the Union"
-- Clinton, "Fox News Sunday"
...
And I don't think the American people will tolerate increasing the debt limit without serious reductions in spending and changes to the budget process, so that we can make sure that this never happens again.
I think our team has been listening to the American people.
The president ought to step up to the plate with us and tackle it together."
-- White House chief of staff Bill Daley, "Face the Nation"
I came here to do something on behalf of the American people."
-- Boehner, "Fox News Sunday"