London (CNN) -- The embattled British tabloid News of the World, one of the oldest and best-selling newspapers in Britain, will shut down after Sunday's issue, its owner, News International, told CNN Thursday.
British media have reported that Coulson will be formally questioned on Friday under suspicion of involvement in hacking and have speculated that he is likely to be released on bail and appear in court at a later date, alongside other arrested former News of the World journalists.
He is a son of media magnate Rupert Murdoch, the head of News Corp., which owns News International.
Yet those wrongdoers are still there today, at the top of the News International empire and ordinary staff at the paper are paying with their livelihoods," NUJ General Secretary Michelle Stanistreet said in a statement.
Police launched a special investigation into the allegations of phone hacking on behalf of the newspaper in January of this year.
On Thursday, shortly before James Murdoch's announcement, police said they have identified the names of nearly 4,000 potential victims.
"I'm deeply skeptical that this actually means they will not be producing a Sunday paper in the near future, relaunched and repackaged -- a Sunday newspaper that will do very similar things to the News of the World, because it's the biggest selling Sunday (paper).
The company is "close to identifying" how the hacking of murdered teenager Milly Dowler's phone happened, a News International source told CNN, declining to be named discussing internal corporate business.
Graham Foulkes, whose son was killed in the terrorist attack, said Wednesday his phone number and home address were found in the files of a private investigator working for the News of the World.
On Thursday, London's Metropolitan Police said they were asking the Independent Police Complaints Commission to investigate the possible bribery of police officers by people working for the media group.
Private investigator Glenn Mulcaire and a journalist working for the News of the World were sent to prison in 2007 for hacking into the voice mails of royal staff in an earlier investigation.
In addition to owning News of the World, News International owns the Sun, the Times and the Sunday Times in Britain.