Properties: 129 properties, in 14 countries, that include the moderately priced Barceló Comfort hotels and the more stylish Barceló brand.
Based in Spain.
Based in France.
Properties: More than 160 properties that run the gamut from remote resorts to inexpensive city hotels, in countries like Spain, Belgium, France, Argentina and Egypt.
Based in Spain.
Based in France.
Based in France.
Sample rate: $94, at the Pestana Atalaia, in Madeira, Portugal.
Based in Spain.
Properties: 318 properties in 30 countries operating under six brands that include Sol Hotels, which are typically near a beach and have kid-friendly restaurants; Tryp Hotels, which also target families but are more likely to be in cities; and the new boutique-style ME by Meliã.
Sample rate: $90, at the Taj View Hotel, in Agra, India.
Sample rate: $61, at Tokyo-Ojima.
Properties: Nine sleek, modern hotels (five in Taiwan) with soundproof rooms, plasma TVs and marble bathrooms.
Sample rate: $146, at the Evergreen Laurel Hotel Taipei.
Sample rate: $138, at the Jin Jiang Hotel Shanghai.
Sample rate: $130, at the Hotel Dedeman Istanbul.
Properties: 20 luxury properties with spas, infinity pools and other high-end amenities in the resort areas of Greece.
Sample rate: $170, at the InterCityHotel Berlin.
Properties: 40 properties, mostly located in France, including the JJW Luxury Collection at the high end, Stars Hotels at the low, and the Median brand -- no surprise -- in the middle.
Properties: 13 small hotels in France and one in Brussels.
Sample rate: $135, at the Oxford Premier Travel Inn.
Sample rate: $123, at the Sorat Hotel Görlitz.
Sample rate: $85, at the Dan Gardens Haifa Hotel.
Sample rate: $174, at the Safir International Hotel Kuwait.
Properties: 40 properties, all in South Africa.
Properties: 113 properties, mostly in South Africa with a few in Tanzania, Nigeria, Namibia, Zimbabwe and even the U.K. Hotels range from mid-level city properties to deluxe safari lodges.
Note: This story was accurate when it was published.