Afghan Election Day - Journey to a remote part of Afghanistan ahead of a presidential election.
CARL AZUZ, CNN STUDENT NEWS ANCHOR: One country prepares for its next orbiting opportunity while another has to wait to kick-start its space program.
Iraq's prime minister said the bombings will force the country to re-evaluate its security plans.
AZUZ: U.S. forces are also helping out in Afghanistan today, as that country holds just the second presidential election in its history.
Ivan Watson went along for the ride to one of these polling places and he tells us about the preparations leading up to today's election.
As you can see, security is important here, even though this is one of the safest provinces in the country.
Despite the fact that Bamiyan is one of the safest provinces in the country -- it's been spared the daily car bombs and roadside bombs that the south and the east of the country have seen, and some of the assassination attacks -- it still hasn't really benefited from reconstruction.
Me!
AZUZ: South Korea's space program is in a holding pattern after officials cancelled yesterday's rocket launch just eight minutes before liftoff!
AZUZ: The U.S. space program has been running for decades, and NASA is planning its latest launch for next week.
AZUZ: ...whose current crew - up there now - is enjoying this view!
GEORGE RAMSAY, CNN STUDENT NEWS: Today's Shoutout goes out to Mr.
You can find all of these features on an electric guitar.
Felipe Barral tells us about a new guitar that incorporates the past as it moves toward the future.
BARRAL: The guitar tones itself, just by turning the master control knob, one can change to any of 18 different tones.
The guitar also has a technology called "chameleon" that can simulate several classical sounds, sounds that use to depend on the different types of wood a guitar is made from, like a classic electric guitar or an acoustic guitar to a more jazzy sound.
AZUZ: Showoff.
Or is it cheating, kind of taking something away from tuning the guitar yourself?
AZUZ: Before we go, want to know the fastest way to ruin a quiet summer evening?
For CNN Student News, I'm Carl Azuz.