The stakes are more personal for Stark this time out, and although comic book fans will recognize the classic characters, Stark's got new on-screen villains to contend with such as Eric Savin/Coldblood, played by James Badge Dale.
Of his dim-witted character Brick Tamland, Steve Carell said that he hopes he hasn't changed at all since the first film, which came out in 2004.
"I think it's such a great ensemble piece that I would hope that our roles are the same as they were the first time around," Carell said.
The second installment of the series, due November 22, just wrapped shooting in Hawaii (the new Game, featuring survivors of Games past, has a water-and-jungle theme).
"We've really loved everything we've seen so far in the film," said "Beautiful Creatures" co-author Kami Garcia.
Reports from early test screenings suggest the film, out October 18, is gorgeous and awe-inspiring, but also divisive along the lines of "The Tree of Life."
2013 will see its fair share of familiar properties getting new life in the form of remakes and reboots.
Smaug will be the first performance-captured dragon, and thanks to advancements in technology, we should be able to see more emotion and musculature in his face in the same manner in which Gollum was improved for "The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey," only on a much bigger scale.
This time, however, it's more of a family drama; Gosling really only carries one third of the film.
On the comedic side, it's a toss-up between Seth Rogen's directorial debut "This Is The End," out June 14, and Edgar Wright's "The World's End," out October 25.
"Elysium" (starring Matt Damon, out March 1), "Oblivion" (starring Tom Cruise, out April 19), and "After Earth" (starring Will Smith, out June 7) share common themes, but only the first two seem to blame rampant corporatization and wealth discrepancies instead of nature.
In this scenario, the rich live on a luxurious new world called Elysium, and the poor live on Earth, which has become overpopulated, diseased and crime ridden.