Hurricane Readiness - Consider how prepared some Americans are for hurricane season.
I'm Carl Azuz.
BEN WEDEMAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: We're right next to Ma'ale Adumim, which is the biggest Jewish settlement in the West Bank.
Now, this town is right up against Jerusalem, in fact many people consider it part of Jerusalem, but it's separated from Jerusalem by the Israeli so-called security barrier, what the Palestinians call the apartheid separation wall.
At least eight people were killed in the violence and dozens of others were wounded.
AZUZ: The state of California is facing a budget crisis.
Dan Simon explores how one might have a big impact on students.
ROMELL MOORE, HIGH SCHOOL SENIOR: It makes me feel good that I was doing all the right stuff and doing all the hard work to go, and maybe I can be a guidance to my young cousins and nephews that maybe they'll want to go to college, too.
ROMELL MOORE: The whole way through school, the teachers and all that tell you as long as you get good grades and all that, the state and the system will find a way to send you to school.
ROMELL MOORE: By helping me go to school they won't have another person on welfare just taking state money to survive.
Tropical depressions are assigned numbers; they don't get names until they become tropical storms.
John Zarrella looks at how prepared we are as hurricane season begins.
GARY LOCKE, U.S. COMMERCE SECRETARY: Public awareness and public preparedness are the best defenses against a hurricane.
ZARRELLA: The Hurricane Specialist.
A new Mason-Dixon poll sponsored by the National Hurricane Survival Initiative found most people surveyed from Maine to Texas have done little to get ready, despite recent big ones: Katrina, Rita and, last year, Ike.
Every year, surveys find hurricane apathy pretty much unchanged, no matter how bad the season was.
ZARRELLA: If they just can't, experts say now's the time to come up with a plan to evacuate.
AZUZ: But for most of us, this would be a deal breaker: worms for lunch.
AZUZ: Well, they would have, if they could've wormed their way out of this.
That whole meal sounds like one big gag.
Hope you have a great one.