CARL AZUZ, CNN STUDENT NEWS ANCHOR: Now that is how you get a show poppin'!
AZUZ: The first Friday of every month, the U.S. government usually announces the current unemployment rate.
AZUZ: President Obama is back in Washington after a trip to Afghanistan.
Dan Lothian has more on the president's time in Afghanistan and why it didn't go exactly as planned.
LOTHIAN: Mr. Obama had planned on flying to Kabul to meet with President Hamid Karzai and visit U.S. embassy employees.
LOTHIAN: Thirteen hundred U.S. troops have been killed in Afghanistan since the war began.
AZUZ: Moving to the legislative branch of U.S. government and the debate over some tax cuts we've been talking about recently.
Saturday, the U.S. Senate voted not to extend the cuts for anyone, but Democratic and Republican leaders are hopeful they they can still work out a compromise.
AZUZ: A new deal between the U.S. and South Korea would get rid of a lot of tariffs.
The president says this agreement will mean billions of dollars in American exports and support 70,000 American jobs.
It's a little smaller than the U.S. state of Maryland, and it's home to about 3 million people.
The prime minister, Binyamin Netanyahu, says he wants the people who were affected to be able to go back to their homes or to alternative housing within days.
NICHOLI WYTOVICZ, SHORECREST HIGH SCHOOL STUDENT: I Facebook after I get home from school, and then I do my homework, and then I Facebook some more.
But for one week, there's a school district in Washington state that's going unplugged as part of a social experiment.
But about Friday's blog on a high school football player who got flagged after praying in the end zone, Rebecca says she would not stop pointing to the sky after scoring.
Salicia, like several of you, talked about the First Amendment and said "the player had every right to say a prayer."
AZUZ: All right, today's Before We Go segment is about someone who's just a giant baby.
AZUZ: You know, all the bear essentials.
For CNN Student News, I'm Carl Azuz.