San Francisco (CNN) -- It's been a long time since the Bay Area's cuisine was defined by sourdough and Rice-A-Roni.
A long tradition of epicureanism rooted in San Francisco's identity as a port town.
They have.
His sea foraging tour, offered through ForageSF, was recently named "Best Walking Tour" in San Francisco.
Kirk is a former catch monitor for the California Department of Fish and Game, and, as my girlfriend pointed out, the only person under 70 who can wear a small brown fedora without looking like a tool.
His signature fishing method involves poking around for fish with a pole that has a six-inch line and a baited hook at the end.
He let Kirk follow him for three days until he got the swing of things.
San Francisco's vast cultural and architectural riches can sometimes reduce the Bay to blue embroidery around the bottom of a window, but the sea-foraging expedition reasserts the water to its rightful place at the center of things.
If a traveler really wants to eat fresh-caught fish and foraged goodies in San Francisco, the best place to go is one of ForageSF's wild foods dinners.
Wild food walks are $30 and the underground meals are $90 a person, although they do reserve $40 seats for those who can't afford to pay full price.
When we finally arrived on our floor and turned the corner we found ourselves in a room the size of a city block with two tables filled with 40 people each and an exposed clawfoot tub replete with functional plumbing and a guitar pick of soap resting on the drain.
Here are the things we put in our stomachs: wild porcini escargot, braised octopus with wild nettle salsa verde, wild boar scotch quail egg with champagne frisée, black cod with morel duxelles and wild New Zealand spinach, wild nettle and heirloom tomato tart, summer bean and fingerling potato salad with wild grape verjus, lemon curd with wild elderberry cream and fennel pollen sugar.
But when you learn that the escargot were found in yards around San Francisco and that the New Zealand spinach grows wild everywhere and that the morels, mushrooms and grapes were picked for free, and that the fish was line caught nearby and the boar was hunted and killed in the wild by the chef, even the skeptics have to admit it's a pretty neat feat no matter how much words like "verjus" (still don't know what it means) get your (factory-farmed) goat.
At this point in the night my notes got wobbly.