Over the years, college basketball has sparked great dedication among its fans, from those who camp out for three months for a ticket to those who attended games before they could read.
Visitors will find that Duke basketball fans don't shower their support only on game day.
Satisfaction Restaurant and Charlie's Pub & Grille are among the favorite hot spots where visitors will discover student and local fans watching the games.
It is also the college team of professional basketball legend Michael Jordan.
They can also visit the 8,000-square-foot Carolina Basketball Museum, located on campus, which holds more than 450 interactive displays, memorabilia and photos documenting a basketball program that began more than a century ago.
In 1952, "Phog" led the men's basketball team to its first NCAA victory.
The museum, which opened about three years ago, houses artifacts and information about the history of KU athletics, including the men's basketball team.
When Kansas beat Memphis to clinch the national championship last year, more than 100,000 fans poured into the street, university officials say.
Despite this, college basketball in Bloomington, Indiana, remains sacred, devout Hoosiers fans say, and they believe that the men's team will be back in full force over the next few years.
Officials at Bloomington Indiana Visitors & Convention Bureau say basketball game days flood local restaurants and bars with students and local fans.
Marquette may be a Jesuit university with just over 11,000 students, but it boasts one of the highest attendance rates at basketball games in the country.
"It's such a great feeling to know you can walk anywhere in the city when you have a Marquette shirt on a basketball day and people will talk to you about basketball," said Sarah Dembkowski, a sophomore at the university.
The Gonzaga Bulldogs men's basketball team is an obscure team that seems to emerge from thin air each March.
4 in the South region.
Before the opening, the basketball team was playing in a glorified high school gym, university officials said.