But the team still has a few games to go to top the 1971-1972 Los Angeles Lakers' run of 33 straight consecutive victories.
The heat is on, and on, and on
Take summer 2001, when the high temperature met or exceeded 100 degrees for 154 consecutive days, according to the Death Valley National Park website.
If the Heat cruise past the Lakers, they'll have made NBA history.
To put it in perspective for Miami, they'd need to roughly triple their amount of victories to top that.
The song held the Hot 100's top spot for 16 weeks, beating out Whitney Houston's "I Will Always Love You" and Boyz II Men's "I'll Make Love To You" by two weeks.
Still, it's one that falls well short of Billboard's most consecutive weeks for a chart-topping album.
According to the Australian Treasurer Wayne Swan, Australia has notched 21 straight years of annual economic growth.
So there's no telling if Australia will turn things upside down even more, by hurdling or skirting economic obstacles to grow for another 21 years straight.
It was a win for her, but also the moment she lost hold of one of her biggest claims to fame.
But what some outside the South may not realize is that, when McCain ran, Democrats still had power in Montgomery -- just as, seemingly, they always had.
Alabama was part of that tide, having last voted for a Democratic presidential candidate -- by the name of Jimmy Carter, the governor of neighboring Georgia -- in 1976.
No.
The streak ended in 2012, when NBC's "Sunday Night Football" took Nielsen's top spot.
One is the New Hampshire Gazette, a bi-weekly paper that first rolled off the presses in 1756, some 20 years before the birth of the United States.
Mexico's party of record -- for 71 years
But its 12-election, 71-year winning streak ended in 2000, when the right-wing National Action Party broke through and Vicente Fox became Mexico's president.
But it's the streak, it seems, that may be his most enduring legacy.
Every season, it seems, a player makes a run at the 56-game hitting streak.