That is, if they decide to retire at all.
My husband is 50, so I have a younger man to help me if I need it," he said, laughing.
For decades, according to published studies and reports, many LGBT seniors entered into a kind of dangerous isolation, because the majority did not have children or spouses to help care for them.
"When you put that together -- the absence of adult children and a partner to help, and add barriers to accessing services, and limit the financial means others have -- then this very thin network of support breaks at exactly the wrong time, right when there is an increasing need for services," said Michael Adams, executive director of the group Services & Advocacy for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual & Transgender Elders, known as SAGE.
"Over time he did get a little discouraged because he felt like he didn't have a purpose, but that's what the people he knew did," Witeck said.
"I do know, as we age, our health can fail, and I've seen it with some friends who aren't as sharp as they once were.
His organization, SAGE, has been working to change the situation for older LGBT people since 1978.
In the past, only married spouses were eligible for that benefit.
Finally, Sen. Michael Bennet, D-Colorado, introduced the LGBT Elder Americans Act this year.
As it is written now, the Older Americans Act, which goes up for reauthorization every five years, does not specifically mention LGBT older adults.
"While the laws have become more accepting of marriage equality of the LGBT community and nondiscrimination policies in a broader sense are more inclusive, that doesn't mean people who work with the elderly automatically become more accepting," said Laurie Young, director of aging and economic security with the National Gay and Lesbian Task Force.
"LGBT people want to experience the services and programs that exist for all older people," Adams said.
"We used to reach out to these organizations and hear, 'Oh, we don't have any gay people using our services,' and occasionally we'd have even hostile responses.
"We, meaning baby boomers, are such a huge and active bunch," Witeck said.
"And I imagine it will get that much better for all of us, so LGBT people won't have to live in fear when they do need the help."