(CNN) -- Since the start of the financial crisis, the world's wealthiest man, investor Warren Buffett, has been front and center.
Schroeder, who worked on Wall Street as an insurance industry analyst, met Buffett 10 years ago when his company, Berkshire Hathaway, bought a big insurance company.
I got to sit in his office for weeks, I ate steaks with him," says Schroeder, who's 51.
Schroeder: No, none.
Schroeder: I think it's fair to say that throughout his career, every time there's been a bubble and it's burst, his reputation has grown.
Schroeder: He would say that human nature doesn't change, and that fear and greed are always the two drivers of the market.
Schroeder: Last spring, when Bear Stearns was being taken over by J.P. Morgan ... he talked about the dominoes falling, and how, if that happened, the government could face some very unpleasant choices and have to take drastic measures.
If you own good stocks in good companies or you own an index of the markets, and you see it getting cheaper, that's a reason to be happy, not to panic and sell.
Schroeder: No, he's a handicapper -- big difference.
The book refers to him, in my words, as a great white shark, and the book describes the battle between his avarice and his higher principles.
But when he was in junior high, he was a shoplifter.
Schroeder: Absolutely, he's made investments that he shouldn't have made, for example, when he invested in Salomon.
Schroeder: You've got an economy in which financial intermediaries who don't add anything to the economy ... have in the past two decades stripped off huge amounts of fees, particularly buyout funds, and hedge funds and funds of funds, and he's very, very critical of the amount of fees that have been taken out.
And he's pointed out that these people are not like major league baseball players, who get recruited away by other teams.
It's not aligned with anything the shareholders get, that really bothers him.
And be realistic about what you can afford, because having a financial cushion means you can sleep at night, and that's worth more than a big-screen TV.