Chinese authorities had dragged her out of her home and down four flights of stairs, she said, restraining and beating her husband as he tried to come to her aid.
"After the abortion, I felt empty, as if something was scooped out of me," Ji told a congressional panel in September.
Chen, a blind, self-taught lawyer, rose to fame in the late 1990s because of his advocacy for what he calls victims of abusive practices, such as forced abortions, by Chinese family planning officials.
"Forced abortion is not a choice," Littlejohn said.
Since its implementation in 1979, the one-child policy has prevented more than 400 million births in China, according to China's National Population and Family Planning Commission.
In some cases, advocates say, fetuses identified as female are aborted, or midwives strangle a female infant with the umbilical cord during delivery, identifying the baby as "stillborn," according to All Girls Allowed, a nonprofit group that aims to end female "gendercide," educate abandoned girls, rescue trafficked children and defend women's reproductive rights.
Liu Qian, vice minister of the Ministry of Health, said that doctors violating the ban would be stripped of their licenses or penalized, and involved medical institutions would also be punished, according to Xinhua.
In its 2009 Human Rights Report, the State Department noted that "many observers believed that violence against women and girls, discrimination in education and employment, the traditional preference for male children, birth-limitation policies, and other societal factors contributed to the high female suicide rate.
The baby was born alive, but then was drowned in a bucket, according to the organization.
"Nothing in human history compares to the magnitude of China's 33-year assault on women and children," said Rep. Chris Smith, R-New Jersey and chairman of the commission, during the September hearing at which Ji Yeqing testified.
A woman's family members, including her husband, parents, in-laws or siblings, may also be targeted for violations of the policy, according to Women's Rights Without Borders, which published a 2005 report compiled from Chen's notes into cases he was investigating before his arrest.
Her husband divorced her, she said, because she could not give him a son (the couple already had a daughter).
"The doctor told me that I had cervical erosion, likely due to the poor medical conditions of my forced abortions," she said.
"When I learned of the procedure, I protested that I had a kidney disease and could not keep the IUD, but they completely ignored me," she said.
I attempted suicide, but was stopped by my family from jumping."
"But I know in my homeland, China, there are millions of women who are suffering as I did.