(CNN) -- Gabriel García Márquez, the influential, Nobel Prize-winning author of "One Hundred Years of Solitude" and "Love in the Time of Cholera," has died, his family and officials said.
The author's cousin, Margarita Marquez, and Colombia's ambassador to Mexico, José Gabriel Ortiz, confirmed the author's death to CNN on Thursday.
"I feel Latin American from whatever country, but I have never renounced the nostalgia of my homeland: Aracataca, to which I returned one day and discovered that between reality and nostalgia was the raw material for my work," reads a mural quoting the author outside of town.
His grandfather, a widely respected figure known as the Colonel, was a liberal military man who strongly disagreed with the political views of García Márquez's father, a conservative telegraph operator who became a pharmacist.
His grandmother's stories were delivered "as if they were the irrefutable truth," according to the García Márquez site themodernword.com.
The influence is obvious in García Márquez's works, particularly "One Hundred Years of Solitude."
For years, García Márquez had been writing and publishing fiction, including short stories in Latin American journals and a handful of longer works, including "Leaf Storm," which was published in 1955.
Over the generations, members of the family are set upon by ghosts and visions, fall in love, dream of riches and fight in wars.
García Márquez worked on "Solitude" tirelessly, selling off family items, living on credit, smoking up a nicotine frenzy.
"I was saddened to learn of the passing of Gabriel García Márquez," he said in a statement.
García Márquez was also involved in a feud with onetime friend writer Mario Vargas Llosa, a Peruvian and a Nobel laureate, who punched the Colombian in the face in 1976 -- believed to be over politics but later revealed to be over Vargas Llosa's wife.
"Love in the Time of Cholera," with an English translation published in 1988, was a particular bestseller.
"Now, after having worked as a novelist, and having achieved financial independence as a novelist, I can really choose the themes that interest me and correspond to my ideas."
"Giants never die," Santos tweeted.
"Life itself is the greatest source of inspiration," he said.