Both the Kurdish and ISIS militants are, in the words of President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, "terrorists."
The scenes of Kurdish and ISIS fighters locked in a death struggle on the border, as well as the images of more than 100,000 desperate Syrian Kurds fleeing to Turkish territory, triggered spasms of deadly violence between rival factions within Turkey.
On Friday, the battle for Kobani was felt at one of Turkey's most elite institutions, Bogazici University.
Agirnasli, a member of Turkey's Marxist-Leninist Communist Party, was reported killed this month in Kobani after he volunteered to join Kurdish militants defending the city.
"What's going on in Kobani today is basically kind of a struggle against barbarians ... against people who have no sense of humanity," said Zafer Yenal, the head of Bogazici's sociology department.
Historically, the Turkish government has persecuted and marginalized this community, referring to them for years as "mountain Turks."
Meanwhile, the PKK has dropped its demands for an independent state, instead calling for greater autonomy and cultural and linguistic rights within Turkey.
"This peace process is one of the only good things happening in the Middle East today," Pope said.
If you come here, there is dignity, honor, everything is here," the man said.
On September 26, students filmed more than 10 men wearing masks and carrying clubs yelling, "Allahu Akbar" ("God is great"), in the literature department at Istanbul University.
"We saw one man killed," Zor said, referring to the multiple beheadings and executions ISIS militants filmed on camera and distributed over social media.
"Turkey has all the fractures you have in the Middle East: the sectarian Sunni-non-Sunni divide, the ethnic divide between Kurds and Turks, the political divide between Islamists and non-Islamists," he warned.
"ISIS's barbaric beheadings and summary executions, horrible and disgusting as they are, should not shadow the war crimes and crimes against humanity perpetrated by Mr. Assad," Kalin wrote.