"Dungeons & Dragons," commonly known simply as D&D, burst onto the scene in 1974, long before the word "gaming" came with the implied word "video" in front of it.
"In today's culture, D&D has found its place as a leader and influencer over storytellers across so many different mediums," said Nathan Stewart, brand director for D&D at Wizards of the Coast, the company publishing the game.
Or, for some, with their family.
Honestly, I think she would have preferred the drugs."
"So I went from having no friends and no social circle to an immediate social circle through 'Dungeons & Dragons,' " said Levine, who is best known as creator of the "Bioshock" series.
By 1981, the game had more than 3 million players worldwide.
"Often times when people think of D&D, they think of the dice, maps and groups of friends sitting around the kitchen table," Stewart said.
In 1988, the first officially-licensed video game based on D&D was released by Strategic Simulations, Inc. "Pool of Radiance" was an adaptation of the Advanced Dungeons & Dragons rule set, and was generally well received by fans and critics.
"Dungeons & Dragons" sessions are social, Levine said.
"It would have to be like that, when you think about it.
"There are certain things about the D&D game that transcend generations -- the storytelling aspect, the desire to become something greater than yourself or just something different from yourself," said Chris Perkins, senior design manager for story and world building for Dungeons & Dragons.
A brand new "Player's Handbook," "Monster Manual," and "Dungeon Master's Guide" will be released this summer, setting the foundations for the game's future.
A new module for the D&D online game, "Neverwinter," will launch on August 14 and be "the premier digital 'Dungeons & Dragons' experience for players," according to a press release.
Players will have a shared story, but what actually happens during a tabletop game will be different than in the digital games.
"When I run the game at PAX Prime this summer, I'm going to do it even differently," he said.
"In reality, that's what the future of video gaming wants to be.