"There were so many people out," Jones says.
It's just aggravating."
"That incensed me," says Minnick, who makes a lengthy commute from Athens, Georgia, to Atlanta -- about a 70-mile trip -- three days a week.
"Impatience, if you don't handle it at the beginning, tends to turn into resentment and anger," James says.
Another problem is that after a bad commute, people tend not to let it go, James says.
You might try keeping a diary of how you feel every day after your commute, or just keep a mental note about your state of mind.
The "aggressive, combative, competitive frame for driving" may be linked to our evolutionary past, but it could have implications for cardiovascular disease, says David Strayer, a psychology professor at the University of Utah.
"In the simulator studies we've done, they'll actually start driving by cars and flipping them off and honking at them," Strayer says.
Also, the farther the commute, the less physical activity the person was likely to get.
"Maybe it is better off to say, 'I'm going to put the radio on a station that's nice, and kind of chill out for the 30 or 40 minutes, rather than aggressively try to get home and beat everyone else,'" Strayer says.
The researchers showed in a 2006 study (PDF) that talking on a cell phone, in terms of how it impairs driving, is comparable to a blood alcohol level of .08, which is the legal limit in the United States.
Distractions in your car can slow everyone else down, too, Strayer says.
But even hands-free, voice-activated interaction with phones can be distracting, Strayer says.
"If you feel anxiety and your phone goes off, that's a problem," Strayer says.
In the warmer months, he'll ride a motor scooter, and two weeks might pass without him using a car.
"Having lived the way I live now, you couldn't pay me enough for me to live out in the suburbs, or live anywhere, and commit to a 45-minute or hourlong commute every day," he says.
"I would never say that this is fun," she says of her commute.
I'm really good at knowing what's going to make me happy for two hours."