Kathmandu, Nepal (CNN)More than 4,600 people dead.
Laxmi Dhakal, spokesman for Nepal's Home Ministry, said  he was aware of reports about the landslide but wasn't immediately able to confirm details.
Alongside their father, two teenage brothers from the Gurung family, Ishan and Iman, said goodbye to their mother, Ishara.
This much pain," said Ishan, the elder of the two.
"Many people are crying, sharing their hardships," he told CNN on Monday evening.
"This is not the time to rest and lament," he said.
"Remember we are not an outside force that has been parachuted into an area to help," he said.
Dhakal, the Home Ministry spokesman, put the death toll at 4,620, while Nepal's National Emergency Coordination Center said the number of dead was 4,727.
"We have incomplete information, but we apprehend the death toll will go up," Nepalese Information Minister Minendra Rijal told CNN earlier on Tuesday.
The government's first priority is to continue search and rescue operations and relief efforts, he said, as he thanked all those involved.
More than 15 countries and agencies have already promised help, Koirala said, as he appealed for other nations also to come to Nepal's aid.
Given Nepal's geographical terrain, we cannot use surface transport much but are using it," he said.
"The United Nations is supporting international operations for search and rescue and strengthening relief efforts," he said.
They included one where 35 out of 45 homes were destroyed and another where 70% of the houses had collapsed, trapping and crushing the people inside, most of them children and the elderly.
Roads are shut now to some of those villages, so we can only imagine how long it will take to get there," Darvas said Monday.
Damage to climbing infrastructure on the mountain, not to mention the overall situation in Nepal, means the climbing season is over for the year, climber Jim Davidson told CNN from the Everest base camp, where he was evacuated after spending two days on the mountain.
CNN's Elizabeth Joseph, Pamela Boykoff, Manesh Shrestha, Sumnima Udas, Kristie Lu Stout, Anjali Tsui, Kunal Sehgal and Ingrid Formanek also contributed to this report.