Or, like Indiana Gov.
As the author of the 1993 federal Religious Freedom Restoration Act (RFRA), Sen. Chuck Schumer is one who can offer clarity over the controversy surrounding Indiana's version of the law.
The Indiana law justifies discrimination in the name of religious freedom, he contends.
But other state laws mirror the federal law much more closely than the Indiana law does.
This was in New Mexico, a state with a religious freedom law at the time of the dispute.
"In our expert opinion, the clear evidence ... unmistakably demonstrates that the broad language of the proposed state RFRA will more likely create confusion, conflict, and a wave of litigation that will threaten the clarity of religious liberty rights in Indiana while undermining the state's ability to enforce other compelling interests," the letter, whose signatories included many Indiana law professors, stated.
Yes, the Indiana law makes it clear that individuals and private companies can use the religious freedom law as a defense, he said.
In the meantime, some are already hatching plans on how to test the law, including Bill Levin, founder of The First Church Of Cannabis, who argued on CNN that the law should protect his right to smoke pot.
Today, it is being championed by Republicans.
There was outrage over the decision, and the law was created as a remedy.
"The timing is beyond a coincidence," he said.
So we've established that the biggest difference between the federal law and the Indiana law is the scope: In Indiana, the law can be raised as a defense in private disputes, while the federal law applies only to government matters.
According to Blackman, the interpretations of the federal religious freedom law are not uniform.
The ruling, in effect, expanded the reach of the federal law to include a business.
Even before the controversial Indiana law was passed, if a restaurant denied service to a gay couple, the couple might be able to sue, but not for discrimination.
If New Mexico had the same religious freedom law as Indiana, the case would have gone to trial.
In Indiana, that protection would be lacking.