It's been an R-rated story, to say the least, with an abundance of testimony about grisly violence and, from Arias, details about a kinky sex life she says she shared with Alexander.
Lost in the salacious details of the "Jodi Arias trial" is the victim, Travis Alexander, 30, who was brutally killed in his Mesa, Arizona, home in June 2008.
That November, he baptized Arias into the Mormon faith, a ceremony Arias said was followed by anal sex.
There were claims that Arias would stalk him, peering in his windows at times.
Arias initially told an investigator, "I heard a lot of rumors, and that there was a lot of blood."
"The only reason to keep this whole thing a secret, which is what she tried to do, is because she was going to kill him, and she's making preparations," the prosecutor said.
After she dropped Alexander's new camera, he became violent, the defense said, and had Arias not defended herself, investigators would've found Arias, not Alexander, dead in the bathroom.
As for the allegation that Arias attempted to surreptitiously slip in and out of Arizona without a trace, Nurmi pointed out that Arias went to the Redding, California, airport to rent her car for the trip.
She didn't need cans, he said.
It's rife with sex, lies and digital images, many of them naughty, and the dueling attorneys are lively -- nay, bombastic -- in their arguments.
Until April 25, the public was given access on a first-come-first-served basis, but the judge changed it to a lottery system for closing arguments, the station reported.
Williams of Amarillo, Texas, didn't have the luxury of a short drive across town.
The prosecution, naturally, would like to see a first-degree murder conviction, as its case has revolved around Arias premeditating the killing.
If the prosecution can't prove premeditation, Arias could still be convicted of second-degree murder, commanding 10 to 22 years in prison.
Either way, she'd then be free to pursue her dream of becoming a professional photographer, and the media circus could move to another town.