Comprising mostly Sunni Muslims, ISIS is an al Qaeda splinter group that wants to establish a caliphate, or Islamic state, that would stretch from Iraq into northern Syria.
The officials could be executed if found guilty, Atta said.
"The situation in Tal Afar, Samarra, and Baiji is under control," Atta said.
Tal Afar fell to ISIS on Sunday, according to Iraq's military.
Al-Maliki blamed political paralysis, not military weakness, for the crisis.
"The Saudi government must bear responsibility of the serious crimes committed by these groups," the statement read.
Holding on to cities so close to the capital, where nerves are fraying, may prove crucial to al-Maliki's government.
Also Wednesday, U.S. Vice President Joe Biden spoke with al-Maliki, and other leaders, by phone.
"He emphasized the need for the Prime Minister -- and all Iraqi leaders -- to govern in an inclusive manner, promote stability and unity among Iraq's population, and address the legitimate needs of Iraq's diverse communities," according to a statement from the White House.
Iraq's neighbor, Turkey, and India have also seen its citizens caught up directly in the conflict.
Their location is unknown, ministry spokesman Syed Akbarruddin told reporters in New Delhi.
Over the past week or so, ISIS militants have pressed forward, taking large chunks of territory.
In their advance through Iraq, the militants have had support from Sunni tribes and militia angered by al-Maliki and his government, which they accuse of marginalizing Sunni concerns.
"These factors, plus the fact that they are defending the capital, should motivate the ISF elements in Baghdad to put up a better fight."
Iran is closely allied with the Shia-led government of Iraq.
The United States and Iran held "very brief discussions" in Vienna, Austria, about Iraq and the threat posed by ISIS on Monday.
Speaking at a CNN town hall meeting on Tuesday, Hillary Clinton, former secretary of state and a potential 2016 presidential candidate, said the Iraqi government made a "mistake" by failing to forge an agreement with the United States to keep American troops in Iraq after the war.
"It's imperative that the government of Iraq, currently led by Maliki, be much more inclusive, much more willing to share power, involve all the different segments of Iraq," she said.