Backgammon itself is a descendant, at least in spirit if not in direct lineage, of the games of Senet and Ur.
The term "backgammon" itself first appears in 1645, spelled "baggammon," in a letter that also referred to Irish, a simpler predecessor that didn't include doubles or the levels of winning found in the modern game.
Othello differs from Reversi only in name, in starting placement (in Reversi the first four pieces go in the center, but not necessarily in the familiar diagonal pattern), and in origin myth, as Othello was "invented" in Japan in the 1960s by Goro Hasegawa.
Risk was first published in France in 1957 as La Conquete du Monde, or "World Conquest," the name under which Parker Brothers first published it in the United States.
Diplomacy, tabbed by one gamer friend of mine as "Risk for grown-ups," was developed by Allan Calhamer in the early 1950s but was not published until 1959, when Calhamer decided to print it himself after existing game houses weren't interested.
The game relies entirely on negotiations and player strategy, with numerous strategy guides abounding online, including an entire Wikipedia article on a popular opening sequence for Italy called the Lepanto opening.
The game known today as checkers or draughts likely traces back to Alquerque, a game that first appears in a 1283 treatise by Alfonso the Wise, summarizing the state of dice, table, and board games in that era.
The game could, and arguably should, end in a draw, as there is no luck involved and the second player can always simply counter the first's moves.
(Among those rejecting it: Milton Bradley, Parker Brothers, and Simon & Schuster.)
When early demand proved more than he could handle while holding down a full-time government job and some freelance work as an architect, Butts sought a publisher, eventually selling the rights to James Brunot, executive director of the President's War Relief Council, in exchange for a royalty on future game sales; Brunot tweaked the board, retitled the game Scrabble, and lost money for three years before his fortunes turned.
First commercialized in 1952 by Parker Brothers, who gave it the name "Hex," the underlying game is played on a board of variable size but equal length and width where the game spaces are hexagonal, thus each bordering six adjacent spaces.
TwixT, now out of print, was invented by Alex Randolph in 1962 and published by 3M as part of its "bookshelf games" series a decade later.
The goal of TwixT, as in Hex, is to connect from one side to the other, but in TwixT the chain would be a series of pegs and connectors.
All rights reserved.