But this past week also saw more than a glimmer of good news from Pakistan: Saturday, March 16 marked an extraordinary moment in Pakistani history, as this is the first time  a civilian government has served its entire five-year term (from 2008 to 2013).
And, for the first time in its history, the Pakistani military appears unwilling to mount a coup against the civilian government.
A more confident civilian Pakistani government will, hopefully, over time be less likely to support these militant groups.
On the other hand, if the 2014 election is seen as unfair, corrupted and is deeply contested, this would likely precipitate a vicious circle of conflict, deteriorating security and capital flight.
Security, technical and economic assistance for the Afghan elections should be prepared to extend into  summer 2014, because it is not clear as yet when that runoff might be held.
This is important to emphasize, because Afghans have been understandably confused by some of the different signals the Obama administration has made about its commitment to Afghanistan in the past.
When the Obama administration announces the number of soldiers who will remain in Afghanistan post-2014, it should emphasize that the U.S. commitment to Afghanistan is set to last until at least 2024.
Should the economy collapse, the Afghan government's ability to deal with security issues would be substantially eroded.
The economic contraction as the United States draws down is likely to be less severe than might be supposed, partly because the hundreds of billions that the U.S. military has spent in Afghanistan over the past decade is spending that almost entirely benefits the United States.
Another encouraging sign is the investigation of the troubled Kabul Bank, in which some $900 million was lost to fraud, indicating that the culture of impunity for corrupt Afghan officials might be beginning to erode.
In addition, a big issue for the army is the extraordinarily high attrition rate.
On Afghanistan, Pakistan has some important common goals with the United States, NATO and Afghans themselves.
According to a senior Afghan government official, numerous discussions between representatives of the Taliban and the Afghan government have taken place over the past years to discuss such a political accommodation, although, so far, not much of anything has come of these talks.