And an aide to the House speaker downplayed the development, saying, "Boehner has always said the United States will not default on its debt, so that's not news."
"This could be the beginnings of a significant breakthrough," Schumer said in a statement.
Yet Boehner's comments signal that, at least on the debt ceiling issue, he's willing to allow a vote on a measure backed by top Democrats but not most Republicans in his chamber -- something he's refused to do with a Senate-passed measure to reopen the federal government, without any add-ons.
"As reckless as a government shutdown is, an economic shutdown that results from default would be dramatically worse," the president said in a speech Thursday in Rockville, Maryland.
As he's done before, Obama on Thursday challenged Boehner to stop what he called Republicans "reckless" strategy of refusing to pass the "clean" spending bill -- which doesn't have provisions targeting the president's signature health care reform, the Affordable Care Act, like several passed by the GOP-led House --  and instead pushing measures to fund popular programs on a one-by-one basis.
"His job is not as important as our country," Reid said.
"If you're going to be insulted ..., and if you're going to be spoken down to, and there's going to be this air of arrogance, you're only going to make things worse," Grimm, of New York, told CNN's Anderson Cooper.
In the comments caught by live microphone, tea party-backed Sen. Rand Paul told his Kentucky Republican colleague, Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, that continuing to hammer Democrats for refusing to consider GOP proposals would eventually succeed.
This already slogging debate over what to do about the crisis ground to a halt Thursday because of something that, at first glance, did not directly involve any of the legislators on Capitol Hill, even if it did hit very close to home.
Not long after, Democrats and Republicans reconvened on the House floor and, in a rare show of unanimity, thanked the responding officers.