David Winner, who wrote "Brilliant Orange," a study of how Dutch culture and psyche contributed to the influence their football visionaries have had on the game, argues England's approach to football has not changed for over half a century.
The breeding ground for this English style of football has its roots in the boisterous games of the medieval period, Winner argues, and the intrinsic love for "testosterone festivals" like rugby, which was invented around the same time as soccer.
"In northern Europe, in general, we tend to value discipline and sticking to your task highly," said Kuper.
The tabloids talk about our players as soldiers, so the values that are very highly praised in English football are bravery, passion, obedience, hard work and you don't tend to hear that much talk about creativity and inspiration, which are not soldierly virtues."
For decades, Spain were one of soccer's greatest underachievers, entrenched in a style that emerged from what General Franco termed "La Furia Española," or the Spanish fury.
"Look at how the Spanish used to play and the way they play now," Winner explains.
"Those changes are apparent now -- this is the first generation to benefit," he said.
England's quarterfinal defeat has prompted a familiar round of introspection as journalists, pundits, players and managers put forward their blueprint for a bright new future.
"People would like England to be a winning team but they aren't willing to go through the changes to make it possible," Winner added.
The English Football Association told CNN its new National Football Center, which will act as a development hub for young players and coaches, is due to be handed over next week.
"Conversely with the younger players many coaches are concentrating on manipulating the ball, being comfortable with it, and not being afraid to dribble or pass it when the situation dictates.
"The future is only bleak in terms of winning tournaments -- England are not going to do that," said Winner.
They qualify for tournaments almost always.