House Speaker John Boehner, a leading Republican voice, told reporters he had no doubt "that there are going to be costs, lost lives associated with what came out of this," calling the swap a de facto deal with Taliban terrorists.
They knew an hour ahead of time where it was going to take place," said Sen. Richard Durbin of Illinois, while his Democratic colleague from Michigan, Carl Levin, noted the military's top leadership fully backed the exchange.
"It's just a matter of courtesy, whether it was in law or not," said conservative Sen. Jeff Sessions of Alabama, a regular critic of the President.
"Nothing in the law requires the Secretary of Defense to disclose the physical details of the transfer," said McKeon, a Republican.
"I was given a heads-up several days before" the bin Laden mission, Boehner said.
Schiff told CNN's Jim Sciutto that the United States has "some capability to track them while in Qatar," but after the first year, he said, all bets are off.
"But we have confidence that we will be in a position to go after them if, in fact, they are engaging in activities that threaten our defenses."
After the briefing to House members, some said they were told as many as 80 to 90 administration officials knew of the pending exchange ahead of time, while Congress did not.
"But I think it would have been wiser, far wiser, for the administration to have notified, certainly the leadership of Congress in the interest of having good relations."
Bergdahl went missing on June 30, 2009, in Afghanistan's Paktika province, where he was deployed with the 1st Battalion, 501st Infantry Regiment, 4th Brigade Combat Team, 25th Infantry Division.
Bergdahl is "continuing to improve every day" as he recovers at a military hospital in Germany, Pentagon spokesman Col. Steve Warren said Monday, but he hasn't spoken with his family yet.
CNN's Paul Steinhauser, Ed Payne, Catherine Shoichet, Virginia Nicolaidis, Kevin Liptak, Barbara Starr, Elise Labott, Qadir Sediqi, Dana Bash and Deirdre Walsh contributed to this report.