The band's sixth album, a follow-up to "Era Vulgaris," welcomes founding bassist Nick Oliveri back into the band, and includes guest spots by Dave Grohl, Elton John, Trent Reznor, Mark Lanegan, Brody Dalle and Jake Shears, among others.
A sneak peek of tracks "Black Skinhead" and "New Slaves" on "Saturday Night Live" suggest that he's been listening to a lot of DMX, while his collaborators include Daft Punk, Skrillex, John Legend, members of Odd Future, No I.D., Pusha T and Chief Keef.
For the 20th anniversary of "Enter the Wu-Tang (36 Chambers)," the Staten Island hip-hop group has a new and possibly final album, named after their 1997 track, "A Better Tomorrow."
RZA told The New York Times that the group has one last mission: "We need to, one time, completely, efficiently, properly represent our brand," while Ghostface Killah told the Guardian, "We got verses and s---, but you gotta make sure it's right.
Queen B has treated us to a few tracks so far from her fifth studio album -- "Grown Woman," "Standing on the Sun," "Bow Down/I Been On" -- so we know she's working on it.
The lineup at Bumbershoot includes fun., Death Cab for Cutie, MGMT, Bob Mould, The Breeders, Matt & Kim and Heart.
The lineup includes Phoenix, Lana Del Rey, Queens of the Stone Age, The Cure, The Killers, The National, The Postal Service, Nine Inch Nails, Grizzly Bear and Ellie Goulding, plus plenty more.
A little farther away from the Big Apple is the sure-to-be-eventful Hot 97 Summer Jam on June 2 in East Rutherford, New Jersey, which includes more Kendrick Lamar, plus A$AP Rocky, Wu-Tang Clan, Fabolous, Wale and Miguel.
And then there's the comedy lineup, featuring David Cross (in case you didn't get enough of him in the new season of "Arrested Development"), Ed Helms (ditto for "The Hangover III"), and Bob Saget, who will probably work blue.
Meanwhile, the Essence Music Festival in New Orleans July 4 weekend will cool off with Jill Scott, Keyshia Cole, LL Cool J, Maxwell, Brandy and who else -- Beyonce.