The goals for the visit were ambitious: reassure allies the United States remains committed to a "pivot to Asia," secure new deals to expand trade, and send a message to China that the United States has its allies' backs in territorial disputes.
Obama came to Asia to bolster ties with Japan, South Korea, Malaysia and the Philippines.
"Our goal is not to counter China, our goal is not to contain China," he said in Manila.
"This is a region that's going to be on the boil for years and years to come," said Robert Kaplan, the chief geopolitical analyst for Stradfor, on CNN this week.
2.
After several rounds of negotiations, Obama had hoped to be able to announce an agreement with Japan during his stop in Tokyo.
There are details to be worked out," said a senior administration official, adding the two sides had agreed only on "parameters" for the deal.
In the coming months, the administration hopes to hammer out a final agreement on Iran's nuclear program, rid Syria of its chemical weapons, and revive Mideast peace talks — all issues that have overshadowed the Asia pivot in the past.
During his final stop in Asia, Obama fiercely defended his foreign policy choices, arguing that his decisions to avoid military force shouldn't be viewed by Americans — or allies — as weak.
4.
As he often does at home, Obama acted as "consoler-in-chief," offering support to victims' families during pauses from policy and diplomatic demands.
Like in Seoul, Obama expressed his condolences to victims' family members — but avoided wading into the controversy surrounding the government's response.
In Asia, Obama's chief success on paper was the military agreement with the Philippines — a pact carefully hammered out by legions of government negotiators over months.
With that in mind, Obama took questions for more than an hour from a diverse group of students at the University of Malaya, fielding queries on his younger self, his family, his successes, and his failings.
"Our strategy is more than just security alliances or trade agreements," Obama said at the forum.