"Yeah, I was all for Obama.
He was all that."
He's done with all of it.
My wife, either, I've convinced her not to vote," lamented Bradshaw as he edged the hairline of his customer.
They are all the same."
Across Iowa, the state where then-U.S. Sen. Obama surprised the nation and swept the 2008 Democratic caucuses, igniting early momentum and propelling him to win his party's nomination over U.S. Sen. Hillary Clinton, other Democrats are standing tall with the president, ready to fight to give him another term.
But he's fighting for all of us," said Robert "Big Rob" Presswood, co-owner of the barber shop that caters to judges, local politicians, police officers and downtown professionals.
Meanwhile, the Obama campaign is upbeat, quietly marshaling hundreds of volunteers from Dubuque to Cedar Rapids, Davenport to Waterloo, to stoke the fires for the incumbent president at a time when all the attention is on the Republican contest.
They are tasking volunteers to avoid relying solely on blanket phone calls right now, and instead create sit-down face-to-face meetings with people to build relationships and gather information: what is happening in their community, what people are hearing, who they are, what they care about, how they can be leaders for the campaign in their community.
And the president, she said, will even make an appearance, "by the magic of the Interwebs."
Mitt Romney, blaming the economy's woes on Obama.
"Well, I'm here to collect."
Nevertheless, Obama's task in Iowa, considered a pivotal swing state when the general election comes in November, is still grand.
Meanwhile, the base is restless.
"Yes, there is frustration, there is angst.
"And he did this in the face of massive opposition from a party who saw as its role to take down a sitting president, not to compromise, not to work with him, but to take him down," Dvorsky said.
"He'll be on the way back to The White House, and they'll be left sweeping up the floor of the empty rooms, and not much else."