The statement posted on the official Facebook page of the Supreme Council of the Armed Forces came as the clock ticked on the military's plan to suspend Egypt's constitution, dissolve the Islamist-led parliament and sideline the president, if Morsy does not find a way to end the unrest, military sources told Arab media and Reuters.
Morsy refused to bow to the ultimatum, setting the stage for a possible showdown.
In Morsy's place, the military has said it would install an interim council, made up mainly of civilians, until a new constitution can be drafted and a new president elected, the sources said.
While insisting they want no direct role in national politics, the military leaders appeared to be pressuring Morsy to restructure his government.
The growing unrest prompted U.S. President Barack Obama's administration to urge Morsy to call early elections, while warning the Egyptian military that it risked losing U.S. aid if it carried out a coup, senior administration officials told CNN.
It was not clear whether Morsy was in the palace.
The anti-government group Tamarod, or "rebel," said in a posting on its Twitter account that Morsy "has no option but to leave" along with the prime minister and the Shura Council, the upper house of parliament.
"We are saying to him, 'Figure out a way to go for new elections,'" a senior official said.
"He stressed that democracy is about more than elections," the statement said.
Obama reiterated to Morsy that the United States does not support any party or movement in Egypt, it said.
Morsy, a U.S.-educated Islamist, was elected Egypt's president in June 2012, but critics say he has become increasingly authoritarian during his year in power.
Such a move "would plunge Egypt into a greater legal, political and institutional crisis," he said.
AbdulMawgoud Dardery, a former member of parliament and a Muslim Brotherhood representative, told CNN's "Amanpour" that the military could be an "honest broker" in a national dialogue.
"It failed in the previous five elections we had in Egypt since the revolution, and they don't want to fail a sixth time," he said.