On the third day of oral arguments on legal challenges to the 2010 Affordable Care Act, the justices tackled the question of what would happen if they ruled that the heart of the law, the individual mandate that is its key funding mechanism, was unconstitutional.
"I think the individual mandate is gone, based on the questioning," Toobin said after the morning session.
"What we've heard over the last few days is a growing concern from our Supreme Court justices about, perhaps, the federal government has gone too far at the expense of individual liberty and our states' rights," said South Dakota Attorney General Marty J. Jackley.
However, lawyer Paul Clement, arguing for opponents of the law, told the justices that removing such a central provision of the law as the individual mandate would leave "sort of a hollow shell" that never would have passed Congress in such a diminished form.
Justice Anthony Kennedy said he was reluctant to take on this "awesome exercise of judicial power," at the expense of congressional discretion.
Michele Bachmann, R-Minnesota, a staunch opponent of the health care law, said Wednesday the entire measure falls apart if the Supreme Court invalidates the individual mandate.
With the legal survival of the individual mandate in constitutional jeopardy, the question of "severability," whether the rest of the law can stand if one part is invalidated, has become more important.
In the morning arguments, the clearly divided court expressed concern over whether Congress would have passed the broad reform package without the key funding mechanism, the mandate, firmly in place.
What the court says in these written opinions, how it interprets the Constitution, will be far more important than what was said in the oral arguments this week.
"He ably and skillfully represented the United States before the Supreme Court yesterday, and we have every confidence that he will continue to do so."
However, a federal appeals court subsequently overruled on the severability question while upholding the individual mandate's unconstitutionality.
The cases argued Wednesday were National Federation of Business v. Sebelius (11-393) and Florida v. Department of Health and Human Services (11-400).