And a French source close to the French security services says there is also evidence that one of the brothers, Said and Cherif Kouachi, has traveled to the the killing fields of Syria.
"Them returning to Europe is a direct threat to them eventually, potentially coming here."
These are "actors who may lurk within our society, that could strike with little notice, commit an act of violence because they have been inspired by things they have seen on the Internet, social media, in literature, without accepting a direct order from ... a terrorist organization."
Just last month, a single hostage taker, apparently inspired by ISIS, seized a cafe in another unlikely terror hot spot -- Sydney, Australia -- killing two people before he was shot dead by police.
The small scale attack that goes undetected," he said.
"If these are foreign fighters coming back, it would be our worst fears realized," said Rep. Adam Schiff, D-California, a member of the House Intelligence Committee.
"This really is a pattern," said Mike Rogers, the former chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, who is now a CNN national security analyst.
"They were not a couple of guys who woke up one day last week" and decided to launch an attack, Sanderson said.
"Some of the messaging has been focused on 'do what you can to help the cause from where you are,'"  said Kifayat, now with the German Marshall Fund of the United States.
"There hasn't been, to my knowledge, a major jihadist attack involving assault weapons in the West in memory," Benjamin said, and also noted that it was significant that Wednesday's assault took place in France, which despite having Europe's biggest Muslim population, has been largely spared large-scale attacks by radicalized Islamists.
"We have seen, just in the last few months, whether it is in Sydney or in Ottawa or in other places, that the perceived successes of ISIS in holding territory in Iraq and in Syria have had a galvanizing effect on those with radical tendencies," he said.