Quite simply, as "Bridesmaids" co-star Ellie Kemper put it to CNN earlier this year, "There aren't a lot of huge studio films with huge female ensembles."
As "Bridesmaids" surprised just about everyone in the movie business, the major television networks (otherwise known as "SNL's" Wiig, "Mike and Molly's" McCarthy and "The Office's" Kemper's day job employers), picked up a number of comedy series with female protagonists, all of which have since been successful enough to get a full season order.
If there is one big star to come out of this TV season, it is Zooey Deschanel, whose show "New Girl" has beaten lead-in "Glee" in the ratings on several occasions.
Deschanel's quirky (or "adorkable," if you will) character is based in large part on "New Girl's" creator, first-time show runner Liz Meriwether.
"It's very telling to the times -- our dealing with being broke and being in that time where it's hard to get a job, and I think people can relate to it," Behrs said.
"It's shocking, but a lot of what we say and do is very realistic to that, in our generation."
Indeed, one only needs to say the two words "Tina Fey" (or "Amy Poehler", for that matter), to realize this moment has been a long time coming.
Rudolph, who also starred in "Bridesmaids," was asked about the movie having positive implications for women in comedy, shortly after "Up All Night" (created by her writing partner, Emily Spivey) premiered on NBC.
"I'm just going to keep my head down and keep doing what I'm doing, because it shouldn't matter, because that's not what I'm doing it for.
Ana Gasteyer, is a regular presence on ABC's new hit, "Suburgatory," which focuses on a teenage girl's move from New York City to the suburbs.
"I think you're getting roles for women that are written by women that come at it differently and feel in some ways more authentic," said Kapnek.
"This season, (that development) is welcome and it should continue and if these shows work, it will continue."
As for right now, "New Girl's" Meriwether said that it's great to see the diversity of shows by and about women being produced.