Access to abortion, then and now, is about more than simple legalities.
"The American people and many political leaders have already made up their minds about legal abortion."
The Roe decision did not prompt "abortion on demand," as many opponents of the procedure had predicted it would.
Since then, movements have come and gone to relax the restrictions or to give women more choice, but such efforts mostly went nowhere.
The court, in fact, heard two cases around the same time: Roe (aka Norma McCorvey, who has since become an abortion opponent), which challenged a Texas law banning abortions except to save the woman's life; and Doe v. Bolton, involving a Georgia law requiring that abortions be performed only in accredited hospitals and only after a review by a hospital staff committee and an exam by two doctors other than the woman's physician.
"Prior to Roe," said Garrow, "whether one could obtain a legal abortion in the face of an unwanted pregnancy was a crapshoot.
Blackmun noted that the state's "important interests in safeguarding health, maintaining medical standards, and protecting potential life" are compelling enough to justify regulation "at some point in pregnancy."
More important, the three conservative justices said, a compelling government interest need not be required to justify restrictions on abortion.
Then came the Casey ruling, in which the justices outlined their views on Roe.
Nevertheless, Blackmun wrote, "the right to reproductive choice" was in danger of being overturned.
In angry dissent, Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, then the lone woman on the high court, called the majority's conclusions "alarming" and said they "cannot be understood as anything other than an effort to chip away a right declared again and again by this court, and with increasing comprehension of its centrality to women's lives."
The law on abortion was evolving at the time of Roe, Ginsburg recalled in 2005.
But Ginsburg, in her rulings, has upheld a woman's reproductive choice.
As significant as it was, Roe v. Wade was only the beginning of the battle.