Any legal issues about Bergdahl, who's been accused of desertion, will be addressed once he has returned to U.S. soil.
Military officials need to hear Bergdahl's explanation of those events, the official said.
There is controversy over whether soldiers were killed, directly or indirectly, in the search for Bergdahl after he was taken captive by the Taliban.
Bergdahl's former team leader, former Sgt.
Everything after that, they were still missions that were in search of Bergdahl.
The investigation included interviews with members of Bergdahl's unit, none of whom reported seeing him go, the official said.
Justin Gerleve, Bergdahl's former squad leader.
"Given the acute urgency of the health condition of Sergeant Bergdahl, and given the President's constitutional responsibilities, it was determined that it was necessary and appropriate not to adhere to the 30-day notification requirement, because it would have potentially meant that the opportunity to get Sergeant Bergdahl would have been lost," Rice said.
But there are questions about the law itself, he added.
There's no evidence that Bergdahl helped the enemy directly, though he's certainly been used in Taliban propaganda.
Bergdahl's former comrades also wondered if he gave the Taliban intelligence because the enemy executed "very calculated, very methodical" strikes after Bergdahl's disappearance, said Buetow.
"He doesn't look that bad to me," remarked Chris Voss, a former FBI lead international hostage negotiator, about Bergdahl's condition.
"He walked off," said former Pfc.
I don't know why he decided to do that, but we spent so much of our resources, and some of those resources were soldiers' lives."
"It's certainly a possibility, but I don't think that I could have continued to go on without being able to share with you and the people the true things that happened in this situation, because if you guys aren't made aware of it, it will just go on, he will be a hero, and nobody is going to be able to know the truth," said former Army Sgt.
"For me, he's a deserter.
Depends on who you ask