After all, her letter to the "Daily Princetonian" last year, which went viral, outraged many women, myself included, with its message that a woman should find a husband on campus before she graduates.
"Honey, keep this in mind.
While I understand Patton's desire to have young women feel more comfortable admitting whether they want motherhood in addition to (or in the absence of) a career, I wondered if her delivery, and her words, are doing more to set modern women back.
They've become bullying of women who aspire to traditional roles, women who want anything for themselves different from what the feminists, the very strident feminists' doctrine, is directing them towards.
Patton: In my experience, I certainly agree that modern women today do want marriage and motherhood.
It's so 1950s.
I'm going to say most women who are 35 are going to be looking for a man around the same age, or maybe a year or two older.
Patton: I don't think it hurts them at all because you can make up lost time at work.
Patton: I've heard this argument before, that in your early 20s, you don't know who you are going to evolve into by the time you're 30.
Kelly: I'm lucky.
I hope it does, but don't expect that.
Don't expect to only be happy because of your marriage.
An equally important barnyard analogy has to do with just what you're talking about: the bad guys, the crazy boys, just the men you know you shouldn't spend time with.
I understand that women have needs, but not with that.
Patton: I would never have plastic surgery, and I wouldn't recommend it for anybody except if you have a tragic flaw, something that enters the room before you do such that you are hounded by it, such that it so impacts your self-image.
Patton: Well, they clearly haven't read what I've written.
I'm just saying if you know this is what you want, plan for it because it doesn't just happen.
Patton: I'm not the one that's evil.
What do you think of Patton's argument that women who want to get married should look for a husband in college?