They also come with an impressive array of gadgets and gizmos: Helicopters, fishing boats, luxury speed boats and state-of-the-art navigation gear are all among the play things likely to be aboard.
Why we like it: "Atmosphere" is more than a yacht -- it is the perfect escape for the 21st century adventurer.
What its captain says: "My crew will fly you in helicopters, drive you to see wildlife in special tenders and take you on rugged shore-based excursions in one of a fleet of all-terrain vehicles we keep ashore in strategically placed locations along the coastline.
And wherever we go, we do so in style, carrying more tenders, toys and cars than you can shake a stick at.
Why we like it: "Senses" is packed with toys, including a luxurious 13 meter "Nelson tender" speedboat with its own slipway system enabling guests to step directly aboard from the main deck, an 8.5 meter Herreshoff sailing sloop, a "Hobie Cat" catamaran, a Waverunner, an  meter fishing boat and a 7.5-meter RIB.
What its captain says: "'Senses' can acclimatize to every use, be it diving in the Tropics, three month-long self-contained adventures up the Amazon, or entertaining.
What its captain says: "Our French Polynesia charter trips show off some of my yacht's better features.
Following a change of ownership, "Titan" was refitted again in 2007.
What its captain says: "Having charted the world for the Admiralty as "Beagle," "Titan" is now ready to charter the world for the discerning guest."
After three circumnavigations of the globe, it's now based in Alaska, and what a place to explore -- from lush green forests to glacial fjords.
Why we like it: "Maverick II" is loaded with sailing dinghies, kayaks, wind surfing boards, tows and a fighting chair for fishermen.
Why we like it: "Leo Fun" has a range of 5,000 miles at a cruising speed of 15 knots.
What its captain says: "Because of its solidity, seaworthiness and state-of-the-art navigation gear, I would be happy to take 'Leo Fun' anywhere with more than three meters of water.''