You wanted to know more about greenwashing, and Scot Case, from environmental marketing firm TerraChoice, answered.
Case: First, it should be noted that not all greener products are more expensive.
There are cleaning products and paints, for example, that have been certified as meeting tough environmental standards by EcoLogo or Green Seal that deliver the same high-quality performance one expects without costing any extra.
There are now energy- or water-efficient versions of all sorts of products -- refrigerators, windows, air conditioners, televisions, dishwashers, ovens, showerheads, washing machines, etc.
Any new innovative product, whether it is "greener" or not, costs extra initially.
It is also possible, however, to buy high-quality, greener products, at very good prices, at growing numbers of mainstream retail outlets.
The same is increasingly true with greener product offerings.
Legitimate environmental claims can be certified by independent outside third-party auditors.
Make sure any environmental claim is specific, backed by proof, and, preferably, verified by an independent, outside third-party.
There are certainly efforts underway to provide consumers with additional information about the environmental impacts of their purchasing decisions.
Some particularly savvy green consumers, however, want additional information beyond knowing that a product has been certified as meeting a standard.
As a result, those products are becoming more widely available for consumers too.
Now that the information is available, consumers can use the EPEAT information to make their own purchasing decisions.
Of course, in addition to the market-based approach, governments always have it within their power to actually legislate minimum environmental requirements or the publication of basic environmental information.
At some point, I think it is inevitable that there will be some significant consolidation in the environmental-labeling world.
Until then, consumers need to be aware that not all green-labeling programs are created equally.
-- Was it created by a manufacturer or a trade association to promote their own products, or was it created by an independent outside organization in an open, public, transparent process?
-- Review the standard to determine whether it covers multiple environmental issues throughout the entire product life-cycle, which includes the raw materials used to make the product, the manufacturing process, transportation and packaging, and the impacts of using and discarding or recycling the product.
Other programs -- including EcoLogo, Green Seal, and the Chlorine Free Products Association -- independently review product test data and visit the manufacturing facilities to ensure compliance with the standard.