In the last decade, his films, including "War Horse" and "Munich," have received little more than respect at the annual gathering.
Other best picture nominees are "Beasts of the Southern Wild," "Amour," "Argo," "Django Unchained" and "Zero Dark Thirty."
He's also won twice, for "Glory" and "Training Day."
She won for "Norma Rae" and "Places in the Heart."
"Beasts," a magical-realist fable about a little girl and her father surviving the caprices of weather, emotion and civilization off the Louisiana coast, received four nominations: best picture, best director (Benh Zeitlin), best actress (Wallis) and best adapted screenplay.
"Thank you to all you Oscar folks, from me, my mom and my dad.
Wallis was considered too young by some -- "Sorry, Quvenzhane Wallis, but Best Actress Oscar Nods Are for Big Kids," read a headline in The Atlantic -- and Zeitlin's directing competition included Quentin Tarantino ("Django Unchained"), Kathryn Bigelow ("Zero Dark Thirty"), Ben Affleck ("Argo") and Tom Hooper ("Les Miserables").
"Zero Dark Thirty's" Bigelow, "Les Miserables' " Hooper and "Argo's" Affleck were all nominated for Directors Guild of America Awards, usually a sure sign of an Oscar nomination, but all fell short with the academy.
After its nomination for best picture, the Center for Constitutional Rights, a legal advocacy organization, released a statement in protest.
When "Argo" was released in October, it looked like it was going to be the actor-director's year.
(David O. Russell, who directed "Silver Linings Playbook," earned the fifth slot in the directing category.)
The overlooked directors and other creative types -- such as the people of "Skyfall" (five nominations, but none in major categories), "The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey" (three nods) and "The Master" (three nominations, but no love for the film or writer-director Paul Thomas Anderson) -- can always blame the system.
"I guess I'm going to the Oscars," he cracked.
The 85th Academy Awards are scheduled for February 24 on ABC.