These banks purportedly facilitated the movement of billions of dollars through the U.S. financial system by falsifying tens of thousands of outgoing U.S. dollar (USD) payment messages for Iran and other countries subject to economic sanctions such as Sudan, Libya, and Cuba.
Further, bank officials engaged in repeated violations of U.S. sanctions, stripping the identifier information from tens of thousands of Iranian transactions valued in the billions.
Then, this June, ING Bank paid the largest ever fine -- $619 million -- against a bank for allegedly moving billions illegally through the U.S. financial system on behalf of Iranian and Cuban clients.
Clearly, bank officials devised and implemented the fraud schemes that resulted in the concealment of tens of thousands of transactions with an aggregate value in the hundreds of billions of dollars involving sanctioned countries, persons, and entities.
Further, when bank officials masked the identities of Iranian clients and thwarted American efforts to detect money laundering and terrorist financing, they violated numerous federal laws, including the International Emergency Economic Powers Act, and the wire fraud, bank fraud, money laundering, and RICO statutes.
In such cases, then, a criminal fine would have limited deterrent value in preventing unlawful conduct.
The Department of Justice and federal regulators appear to have adopted the policy: "impose a fine against the bank but don't prosecute suspected corrupt bank officials."
Or maybe the DFS sincerely believes that the fine, by itself, constitutes a reasonable penalty against SCB.
The DFS leveled extremely serious charges against SCB, referring to the bank as a "rogue" institution that "left the U.S. financial system vulnerable to terrorists, weapons dealers, drug kingpins and corrupt regimes."
The DFS action against SCB raises many unsettling questions for financial institutions moving forward.
In the end, the justice system cannot tolerate a dual system of justice, exempting corrupt bank officials from prosecution for fear of negative economic repercussions.