Once aboard the German carrier's A346, he was led to his first-class suite, where a spacious leather seat and ottoman ran the length of four airplane windows and various compartments overflowed with noise-canceling headphones, menus, pajamas and slippers.
It's not surprising, then, that recent reports show that cabin modifications, especially those that favor upper-class travelers, are the fastest-growing segment of the airline MRO (maintenance, repair and overhaul) industry.
Of course, no matter how opulent the cabins get, the best part of first-class flying may be off the plane.
They represent bed length, entertainment screen size and seat width (in inches), respectively.
When dinner is over, adjust the wall partition to allow for privacy.
Not only do the cabins' two bathrooms have a shower stall, they also have a marble sink, Timeless Spa toiletries and heaps of fluffy towels.
Voted best first class two years in a row by airline-review website Skytrax, Etihad's Diamond first-class suites are arranged in a one-one configuration, each individually sealed off behind Jaali screen--style sliding doors.
At first glance, the JAL Suites aboard the carrier's 777s seem to offer nothing new.
jal.co.jp
Like those of JAL, ANA's first-class Suite Squares require a second look to be fully appreciated.
The high-tech aluminum cubicles, available only on the airline's 777 flights between New York and Tokyo, are laid out in a one-two-one configuration; each features lap rugs made from bamboo fiber, separate cocktail tables, laptop drawers, wood-grain wallpaper and 23-inch touch-screen LCD TVs (which passengers can use to order dishes like spiny lobster dumplings in multicourse Kaiseki menus).
In first class, the redesign has meant the comfy, elegant Kosmo Suites -- 83-inch-long compartments encased in wood-grained shells, with leather interiors in cream and sea-green hues.
The suites contain personalized storage compartments, reading lights and wide-screen TVs with upgraded AVOD (audio video on demand) systems, plus Bose headphones.
All rights reserved.