Only about 12% of workers are union members, down from 20% in 1983, according to federal data.
Michigan has become the 24th state to adopt a right-to-work law, which removes the requirement for people to pay unions to work at unionized agencies, effectively decreasing union funding and making it less likely that workers choose to organize.
"People need to wake up and fight," teacher Sarah Zigler said at Tuesday's rally.
For much of American history, unions have been credited with helping millions achieve the American dream and criticized for "heavy-handed" operations (They were also reviled for corruption in the days of Jimmy Hoffa.
Today, Michigan becomes the latest state in the Rust Belt, the heart of America's manufacturing industry, to chip away at their power.
While there have been moments of good news for organized labor, including pay bumps for GM autoworkers, industry analysts agree that organized labor no longer holds the sway it once did among America's workers.
"The anti-union campaigns of the last three years, starting with Wisconsin, have really been driven ... by big national organizations and money," said Lafer, a union member and who teaches labor studies at the University of Oregon.
"Unions have lost power in the private sector over time because of competition, globalization, and the fact that they don't add any value to worker productivity," said Chris Edwards, an economist with the Cato Institute and a fan of right-to-work laws.
Businesses are responding to today's realities and "can't pay above-market wages forever," he said.
"Good riddance," he said.
If they shrink, so will the money and power of that central blue voting bloc, Kaboolian said, adding that "it's a perfectly rational point of view" for right-wing organizations to take.
"These so called right to work laws don't have to do with economics, they have to do with politics."
He said the changes are being driven "by efforts to attract business," not an underhanded political effort, he says.