The secret documents have been made available to several news organizations, including the New York Times and the Washington Post -- and some have been published by WikiLeaks, an organization that facilitates the anonymous leaking of secret information.
"These documents are remarkable because they show just how questionable the government's basis has been for detaining hundreds of people, in some cases indefinitely, at Guantanamo," said Hina Shamsi, director of the ACLU's National Security Project, in the statement.
The file, from 2006 when Gailani was transferred to Guantanamo, includes details of his time as a bodyguard and cook to Osama bin Laden shortly before the 9/11 attacks.
A document from July 2008 profiles another bodyguard for bin Laden, Sanad Yislam al Kazimi, who stated that he "would have been willing to die for UBL" (the shorthand used for the al Qaeda leader).
Another Yemeni, Abdu Ali Sharqawi, is described as a "senior al Qaeda facilitator" with links to the 9/11 plotters.
"There, the operatives began to plan new attacks, a process that would consume them, according to the assessments, until they were finally captured."
In one instance, a Spanish jihadist by the name of Ahmad Abd Al Rahman Ahmad, after spending time in Britain and France, is instructed to travel to Afghanistan via Iran.
The newspaper says the documents include details about detainees' illnesses and behavior at Guantanamo, including "punching guards, tearing apart shower shoes, shouting across cell blocks."
Others, according to the New York Times, were not so fortunate despite a lack of evidence.
"It's not too late to change course and we need more legal process, not less, to make sure we're holding the right people," Shamsi said.
Pentagon Press Secretary Geoff Morrell and Ambassador Daniel Fried, the Obama administration's special envoy on detainee issues, said in a statement: "The Guantanamo Review Task Force, established in January 2009, considered the DABs during its review of detainee information.