According to Leusner, "This evening, the health care worker developed a fever and is now in isolation and being evaluated at University Hospital in Newark."
For all the scares, only four people -- starting with Thomas Eric Duncan, a Liberian who died in a Dallas hospital, followed by two Dallas health care workers who'd treated him, lastly Spencer -- so far have been diagnosed with the deadly virus in the United States.
In addition, people with a travel history to the affected regions but with no direct contact with Ebola patients will be "actively monitored... and, if necessary, quarantined."
Meanwhile, there continues to intense interest about Spencer, including where he was, and what risk he might have posed, before getting hospitalized Thursday.
Up through that time, authorities said, Spencer limited his public interactions but did not eliminate them.
"There is no cause for alarm," Mayor Bill de Blasio said.
Spencer, employed at New York's Columbia Presbyterian Hospital, has been in isolation at Bellevue since emergency personnel took him there Thursday morning.
"He is a committed and responsible physician who always puts his patients first," the hospital statement said.
"(He is)  "in good enough shape to be in conversation with everyone around him," de Blasio said.
Bellevue is designated for the "isolation, identification and treatment of potential Ebola patients" in the city, the statement said.
"The chances of the average New Yorker contracting Ebola are extremely slim," the statement said, adding that the disease is spread by direct contact with the bodily fluids of an infected person.
On Friday, the National Institutes of Health said one of the nurses, Nina Pham, had been declared free of the Ebola virus.
The other nurse, Amber Vinson, who is getting treatment for Ebola at Atlanta's Emory University Hospital, is steadily regaining her strength, and her spirits are high, her family said.
In addition, all U.S.-bound passengers from Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea must land in one of the five U.S. airports with enhanced screening for Ebola: New York's Kennedy, Washington Dulles, New Jersey's Newark Liberty International, Chicago's O'Hare International and Hartsfield-Jackson International in Atlanta.