But her career has had many facets -- Angelou has been a singer, dancer, playwright, director and teacher.
"Politicians must set their aims for the high ground and according to our various leanings, Democratic, Republican, Independent, we will follow," she writes.
In an interview last week in her 1881 brownstone in Harlem, decorated in vibrant, bright colors, Angelou sat at the round table in her dining room, sipping coffee, as she talked about the election and her work.
However, I would encourage every voter to say to his or her candidate, go in and do it, and you will not do it alone.
... Offer something to the country.
If you will have a person enslaved, the first thing you must do is convince yourself that the person is subhuman.
But to admit it, you have to stop saying because this guy speaks another language, because their eyes are shaped differently from mine, because they're first-generation Americans from Eastern Europe, then they don't count, I don't have to consider them.
You know that when I was young, I was physically abused and so I stopped talking.
My hair was huge and very curly, black.
And she would start to brush my hair and she would say, "Sister, Mama don't care what these people say about you, that you must be an idiot, you must be a moron because you can't talk.
[Now] I teach all over the world, I teach in French and Spanish, so when I stand up on a stage or see a book of mine gets accolades or a piece of music I've written, I think about my Mama, and she died before I really came of age, and I just think she knew it.
I mean that after Chief Luthuli, apartheid was so rigid, unbreakable that men had to carry their IDs on plastic cards that were too large for any suit, so they flapped, reminding them constantly who they were.
So it is a letter to all my daughters, to those who don't know they are.
my answer was, "I say nothing, she's a woman who thinks carefully and profoundly and she has courage.
I do the same."
You're like trees, you have roots, and they've done wonderful things, and you need to know that, and by knowing that, you see how outfitted you are for these times.
You need to know that you are in a continuum, and if you understand that, you realize that you are worthwhile.