Separately, Director of National Intelligence James Clapper said late Monday that he was authorizing the release of more details about the government's collection of telephone records under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, in an effort to show the extent the spying program was overseen by a secret federal court and Congress.
Most of the newly-declassified documents describe the aggressive push by the NSA, the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Justice Department for lawmakers to save the bulk telephone-data collection effort, known as the 215 program, because it was important for their efforts to thwart terrorist threats.
"We give them policy direction, but what we've seen over the last several years is their capacities continue to develop and expand, and that's why I'm initiating now a review to make sure that what they're able to do doesn't necessarily mean what they should be doing," he said.
Obama did not learn until recently of the NSA surveillance of other world leaders, including allies, a senior administration official told CNN on Monday.
"There's a review under way that will look at, among other issues, some of the very specific things with regards to intelligence-gathering, including matters that deal with heads of state and other governments," he said.
In particular, the official said the White House didn't learn of all of the surveillance programs until its internal review over the summer, after which some of them were stopped.
"As far as I'm concerned, Congress needs to know exactly what our intelligence community is doing," her statement said.
Also Monday, Sen. Susan Collins, a member of the Senate Intelligence Committee, said she knew of "no justification for the Administration's collection of intelligence on the leaders of our closest allies," such as Merkel.
Other news media reports, based on documents leaked by Snowden, have said the NSA monitored the communications of the leaders of Brazil and Mexico.
"None of this has to do with terrorism," he said.
"We will continue to confer with our allies, such as Spain, through our regular diplomatic channels to address the concerns that they have raised," the Costos statement said.
"Ultimately, the United States needs to balance the important role that these programs play in protecting our national security and protecting the security of our allies with legitimate privacy concerns."