The situation has gotten so out of hand that tiny Guinea-Bissau, the fifth-poorest nation in the world, is being called Africa's first narco-state.
"The same organizations that we investigate in Central and South America that are involved in drug activity toward the United States are engaged in this trafficking in Western Africa," said Russell Benson, the Drug Enforcement Agency regional director for Europe and Africa.
"Cocaine use prevalence in the USA is 50 percent lower than it was two decades ago, while Spain, Italy, Portugal, France and the United Kingdom have all seen cocaine use double or triple in recent years," the U.N. report said.
Criminals traffic about 250 tons to Europe each year, though not all of it makes it there, the U.N. said.
"It's a significant market for them to exploit," Benson said.
"It's a huge difference," he said.
West Africa is a smuggler's dream, suffering from a combination of factors that make the area particularly vulnerable.
"This area of the world is ripe," Bagley said.
"It's a big place," Benson acknowledges, noting that there are 54 countries on the continent.
"As a result, when culprits are apprehended, they are driven in a taxi to the police station.
West Africa also is particularly attractive to traffickers because it is near "the soft underbelly of Europe," said retired four-star Army Gen. Barry McCaffrey, who was drug policy director for President Clinton.
"They go right dead-ass across the shortest route," McCaffrey said.
The flight originated in Venezuela, he said.
"These organizations don't operate in a vacuum," Benson said.
The cartels also have aligned themselves with terrorists, Harrigan said.
"I'd be really skeptical of those kinds of assertions," McCaffrey said.
Still, Bagley said, traffickers and terrorists may use some of the same criminal networks.
McCaffrey, who was in the Clinton White House in the 1990s, said he saw the problem coming a long time ago.
But if there is a decline, the DEA's Benson said he has not seen it.
"In the last three or four years, it's increased quite dramatically," he said.