The introduction of new engine technology in 2014 was never going to be easy and so it proved in preseason testing as all three engine suppliers -- Renault, Mercedes and Ferrari -- had teething problems with their power units.
Renault, which supplies engines to Red Bull, Lotus, Toro Rosso and Caterham, is in the biggest trouble ahead of the Melbourne opener.
For example, last season many teams, and especially four-time champion Red Bull, eked out extra speed by using the exhaust gases to increase downforce at the rear of the car.
"Reliability is still a big question mark," said the German, who set the 18th fastest time on the final day in Bahrain.
Hamilton has given the Red Bull his vote of confidence, calling Adrian Newey's 2014 design "stunning."
"The goal is to win the championship, and this year I'm more pumped than ever," said Hamilton, who is also rumored to have rekindled his romance with singer Nicole Scherzinger over the winter break.
The team's Finnish driver Valtteri Bottas summed up the team's excitement, saying on Twitter: "Think we are well prepared and made the most out of testing.
Fernando Alonso, who is paired with Kimi Raikkonen in Ferrari's intriguing lineup of world champions, was amusingly mysterious about the Italian team's chances.
Denmark's Kevin Magnussen, the 21-year-old son of former F1 driver Jan Magnussen, makes his debut with McLaren, Swede Marcus Ericsson, 23, lines up for Caterham and Russian teen Daniil Kvyat, who has looked pretty handy so far, makes his bow with Toro Rosso.
Former Lotus team principal Eric Boullier arrived at McLaren as racing director, following the return to power of CEO Ron Dennis, but there is still a senior position available at the eight-time constructors' champion amid rumors that Brawn could ultimately fill the gap.
Despite criticism from teams and drivers, Ecclestone's plan to award double points at the final race in Abu Dhabi comes into force in 2014.
After three winter tests, Red Bull is on the back foot; Mercedes and Williams may be favorites, but just who will win in Australia remains, as always, a race into the unknown.