(CNN) -- It's the season of brackets, beer and, of course, basketball.
CNN, with the help of experts at the NCAA, chose a handful of basketball towns filled with great fans, rich traditions and history that make these places worth a visit.
The grassy tenting area outside the basketball arena, known as Krzyzewskiville, is named after Coach Mike Krzyzewski, who has been named National Coach of the Year 12 times.
"It's so easy to become enthralled with the culture of Duke basketball," said Joel Burrill, a senior who headed up the tenting efforts this year.
"It's not just a sport," he explained.
Visitors can walk to Franklin Street, the heart of town, where eateries, shops and sports bars are ready to embrace UNC fans.
3-seeded team this year, one must make a trip to Allen Fieldhouse in Lawrence, Kansas.
The museum, which opened about three years ago, houses artifacts and information about the history of KU athletics, including the men's basketball team.
"And if you're a basketball fan, that's all the better."
Despite this, college basketball in Bloomington, Indiana, remains sacred, devout Hoosiers fans say, and they believe that the men's team will be back in full force over the next few years.
Indiana University has one of the top basketball programs in the country, winning five NCAA championships.
"Basketball is a religion in this state," said Zach Osterman, the men's basketball columnist at the university's student newspaper, the Indiana Daily Student.
There is no football team at Marquette University in Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
"It's such a great feeling to know you can walk anywhere in the city when you have a Marquette shirt on a basketball day and people will talk to you about basketball," said Sarah Dembkowski, a sophomore at the university.
On Water Street, where most of the fans crowd on game day, visitors can hang with the locals and enjoy a hub of sports bars, taverns and restaurants.
This year, the team entered the tournament seeded No.
Before the opening, the basketball team was playing in a glorified high school gym, university officials said.
The town, tucked into eastern Washington, is excited to welcome visitors.