For a monthly $4000 fee per child, their "total education management" package included extensive admissions counseling, arranging homestays, private tutoring, and extra-curricular activities, whereby Zimny and his team functioned as "parents away from parents" for their sons.
"When people are looking at the U.S. education system, it's seen as one of the best in the world," said Susan Joan Mauriello, an American who moved to Hong Kong in 2005 and quickly identified admissions consulting as a business opportunity.
Some consultancies, such as Capstone, begin grooming students as early as in eighth grade (around ages 13-14), giving them "a well-built resume that doesn't spike in their final year (before entering university)," said Capstone's founder, Ronald Po.
Now most companies have a full-time staff, they have their own offices, and it's all-year-round support," Po said, citing his annual client base as growing from four to up to 40 students.
The U.S.-based Independent Education Consultants Association (IECA) denounced Zimny as a "con artist," describing the monthly $8,000 fees for the two Chow sons as approximating "what should be a single fee, over a multi-year period, to work comprehensively with a student."
"Students, who ten years ago would have gotten into Harvard, Princeton, and Yale, might not be able to now," she said.
While donations are "not an absolute requirement," Zimny told CNN, they are a "common practice" that can pivotally influence boarding school and university admissions.
While Struthers confirmed that Zimny made several gifts to the school, he said they were unrelated to the Chow sons, adding that "no donation or promise of donation was made to Loomis Chaffee by the Chows or Mr. Zimny on their behalf, as part of the admission process."
In March 2008, the Chow sons were admitted to Loomis Chaffee -- a decision Struthers said was merited, given their "academic records, extracurricular involvement, and leadership potential."
In his view, "Money is money, whether it's coming from a random family in Hong Kong or a fifth-generation Whitney applying to Yale."
"The way to differentiate yourself is "that one line on your resume that says what university you came from," Capstone's Po said.