When a soldier is serving in Afghanistan, "you come to terms with it," Ian Rigby said.
"I just want to say that I love Lee, I always will, and I'm proud to be his wife," said Rebecca Rigby, sobbing.
One bouquet , propped in a pair of black army boots, had a message that read: "RIP Brave Soldier.
One elderly man, using a cane, had tears in his eyes as he walked, shaking his head, up and down the flowers for half an hour.
Attached to a wooden cross adorned with a red poppy, the symbol of remembrance for the British armed forces, it read: "Your passing shall be avenged."
Rigby, a 25-year-old machine gunner and military drummer, was wearing a Help for Heroes T-shirt when he was attacked in Woolwich, according to witnesses.
One of the two, who approached a man filming the gory scene in the Woolwich neighborhood, suggested that Rigby had been targeted only "because Muslims are dying daily" at the hands of British troops like him.
Two women arrested Thursday, ages 29 and 31, have been released without being charged, police said Friday.
"As long as (British) foreign policy is engaging in violence, they're only inviting violence in retaliation," Baraa told CNN.
Syrian cleric Omar Bakri Mohammed, who founded Al-Muhajiroun in the late 1990s, told CNN Terrorism Analyst Paul Cruickshank by phone from Tripoli, Lebanon, he also had been acquainted with Adebolajo.
One talk Adebolajo attended was at a Woolwich community center, he said, noting the group met in such locations because they were not welcomed in mosques.
The two injured suspects remained in stable condition at separate South London hospitals Friday, the Metropolitan Police said.
In Kent, police arrested a man on suspicion of "racially aggravated criminal damage" at a religious building.
"Don't listen to the Government cover ups, The lies about Islam being peaceful," read another EDL tweet Thursday.
"We, the British people, are not so easily fooled; nor are we so easily divided."
CNN's Greg Botelho, Dan Rivers, Jonathan Wald, Carol Jordan, Atika Shubert, Erin McLaughlin and Richard Allen Greene contributed to this report.