"I can't trust the Malaysian government.
It crashed into the Indian Ocean, they'll say, citing complicated math as proof.
What they still can't tell you is why, or precisely where, or show you a piece of the wreckage.
"They have been hiding the truth," she said.
"It was released out of a commitment to openness and respect for the relatives, two principles which have guided the investigation," he said.
That investigation now focuses on an area of the southern Indian Ocean off Australia's west coast, where authorities believe the plane went down after a long, odd, unexplained flight that should have ended hours before in Beijing.
"We're not searching for a needle in a haystack," Mark Binskin, vice chief of the Australian Defence Force, told reporters.
"It's a pretty remote area and weather conditions can get very, very bad, very, very quickly," said Neil Bennett of the Australian Bureau of Meteorology.
Twelve aircraft will be part of the search, Australian officials said.
To complicate matters, debris that may have been floating days ago, when some of the satellite images were taken, could have sunk by now.
Much like the horn from a passing car whose pitch rises as it approaches and then falls as it races away, engineers were able examine the satellite's signal and determine it had to be moving south, he said.
"At this time this transmission is not understood and is subject to further ongoing work," he said.
"I think it's very significant," CNN aviation analyst Miles O'Brien said.
It involves agencies with "expertise in satellite communications and aircraft performance," he said.
Malaysian authorities followed up with briefings for families in Beijing and Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
Malaysian officials said they are doing all they can.
"We all feel enormous sorrow and pain," he said Tuesday.
CNN's Jethro Mullen reported and wrote from Hong Kong; CNN's Sara Sidner and Mitra Mobasherat reported from Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia; Catherine E. Shoichet and Michael Pearson from Atlanta; Pauline Chiou, David McKenzie, Jaime A. FlorCruz, Connie Young and Yuli Yang contributed from Beijing; Kyung Lah contributed from Perth, Australia.