"They hit him," he cried out.
After all, it wouldn't be the first time Basma's husband, attorney and opposition leader Chokri Belaid, had been assaulted in broad daylight.
And as a result, he and his family were often the target of death threats, harassment, and on occasion, violence at the hands of his political opponents.
The last threats came from the mosques, in which the Imams there called for him to be killed," Basma says.
I saw the traces of gunshots, and at that time, my only concern was to save him.
"Opposite to us, there was a medic.
Having ousted Ben Ali and having held free and fair elections, and while their Arab counterparts in Egypt, Libya, and Syria continued to struggle under the rule of dictators desperately clinging to power, Tunisia was setting the precedent for democratic transition in the modern Arab world.
The assassination, the first time since Tunisia's independence in 1956 that a politician had been the target inside the country, set off a wave of political setbacks which caused a security vacuum, creating a vicious cycle of instability that has come to characterize, and still plagues, Arab Spring nations in their post-dictator transitions.
Just 13 days after the Belaid assassination, Jebali resigned as prime minister.
The whole thing has changed the destiny I have chosen, and yet I feel I am in the middle of the way," Basma says as she clutches tissues with one hand and constantly fiddles with a charm on her necklace bearing the image of her late husband with the other.
Following her time at university, she went on to join the Tunisian Association of Democratic Women, a prominent part of the Ben Ali opposition.
I don't want to collapse, for the sake of Tunisia.
To me, he was a husband, friend, colleague in the same party and profession."
That afternoon, the eager crowd lining Habib Bourguiba Avenue, the birthplace of the Arab Spring, parted as a large truck crept past, draping behind it a giant, cascading Tunisian flag.
He once said, "if they assassinate me, a flower will grow."
Now, thousands of flowers have grown in Tunisia."