A Canadian military plane was to depart Trenton, Ontario, laden with supplies at 2 a.m. Thursday.
But the air space was not open to charitable organizations, said Franklin Graham, president of Samaritan's purse, which was planning to send charter planes loaded with supplies to Haiti Thursday morning.
Crowley said the Netherlands, Iceland, Puerto Rico, Guyana, Brazil, Canada, Belize, Cuba, Morocco and France all had offered aid.
"Anybody who sends us money, we're just going to move it into those supplies quickly," he promised.
He said that, after the 2004 Asian tsunami, Americans donated more than $1 billion, with a median contribution of $56, and half of the money came via the Internet.
Search-and-rescue teams from cities in the United States headed to Haiti, with a team from Fairfax, Virginia, due to arrive Wednesday in Port-au-Prince, the State Department said.
The 7.0-magnitude earthquake struck southern Haiti late Tuesday afternoon, knocking down buildings and inflicting destruction and casualties yet to be tallied, given limited communications and emergency services in the Caribbean nation.
• France, Haiti's former colonial ruler, dispatched two planeloads of rescue personnel, one from Guadeloupe in the Caribbean and one from Marseilles, France.
The mobile hospital "has intensive therapy, surgery, diagnostics, ultra-sound, X-ray, electrocardiogram modules as well as a blood test laboratory," and can accommodate 50 patients at a time, she said.
All five were helping with the relief effort, Capt.
"It is incredibly horrible to see a catastrophe of this size hit a people who have been suffering from extreme poverty, violence and unrest for so many decades," said Angelina Jolie in a news release.
The group, also called Medecins Sans Frontieres, said its medical teams have treated more than 1,000 people since the earthquake hit.
• The World Food Programme was airlifting 86 metric tons of food from its hub in El Salvador, enough for more than half a million meals, the agency said.
• AmeriCares was sending $3 million in medical aid, including antibiotics, pain relievers, bandages and other supplies, plus relief workers to distribute the aid.
• The International Rescue Committee was deploying its Emergency Response Team, focusing on critical medical, water and sanitation.
The organization has more than 60 church/community centers on the island, it said.
• Businesses pledging relief in amounts exceeding $500,000 included UPS, Google, Coca Cola, Lowe's, Bank of America Charitable Foundation, Wal-Mart and ConAgra Foods Foundation.