That consensus was reached during a day of meetings by the "Friends of Syria" in the cradle of the Arab Spring, where participants laid out the groundwork for a political transition in Syria, not unlike the international planning that preceded the changes in Libya, where Moammar Gadhafi's regime was toppled last year.
"We would prefer to have a two-hour humanitarian pause daily, where we would enter the different affected areas, including Homs, and deliver much-needed humanitarian aid," she said in a telephone interview from Geneva.
In addition, they said, Friday's ambulance runs were carried out as shelling continued in the area.
The dead include 18 corpses found in the Hama province town of Khatab and 30 people in Homs, the epicenter of resistance that has endured 21 days of daily shelling, according to the Local Coordination Committees of Syria, a network of opposition groups.
"It is quite ironic that in a conference called 'The Friends of Syria,' we haven't seen one Syrian delivering a speech," said an anchor, who added that the conference was dominated by "icons from the colonial era who are conspiring against Syria and the Arab world."
"Assad can still make the choice to end the violence, save lives and spare his country from descending further into ruin but, if he continues to reject that choice, we and the Syrian people will keep pressure on him until his deadly regime cracks and collapses, because it will," she said.
"Their continuing to kill their brothers and sisters is a stain on their honor," she said.
They didn't sign up to slaughter people, and they are looking for ways out."
"We are going to continue to keep the pressure up and look for every tool available to prevent the slaughter of innocents in Syria," he said.
"To those Syrians who still support Assad, especially members of the Syrian military: understand that this regime has no future," Clinton said.
"The longer you carry out its campaign of violence, the more it will stain your honor.
CNN's Elizabeth Joseph, Saad Abedine, Raja Razek, Hala Gorani, Salma Abdelaziz, Chelsea J. Carter, Tracey Doueiry, Kareem Khadder and Joe Sterling contributed to this report.