In special circumstances, they may find their destiny, and seek to heal the world and make all of us stronger.
On June 12, 1963, Evers, who fought against discrimination and segregation and led voter registration efforts, was assassinated by a white supremacist named Byron De La Beckwith, a founder of the state's White Citizens Council.
"Both Medgar and I knew the day would soon be upon us when he would be killed, and that last night that we had together, I said, 'I can't make it without you,' '' Evers-Williams said.
Evers-Williams served on the NAACP board for 30 years and was awarded the organization's Spingarn medal, served as editor of "The Autobiography of Medgar Evers: A Hero's Life and Legacy Revealed Through His Writings, Letters, and Speeches", and through the establishment of the Medgar and Myrlie Evers Institute, she has kept his legacy alive.
Three years ago, on February 26, 2012, Fulton's son, Trayvon Martin, was shot to death by George Zimmerman, a self-proclaimed neighborhood watch volunteer in Sanford, Florida.
Then, when she saw how many lives were touched by Trayvon's death, she became a voice for the voiceless, like others before her.
Fulton founded the Trayvon Martin Foundation, and has reached out to others such as the family of Michael Brown, 17, who was fatally shot by police in Ferguson, Missouri, while unarmed on August 9, 2014.
I feel like I just have to do my part," Fulton said.
Then and now, African-Americans have faced lynching at the hands of white men, whether police officers, self-proclaimed cops, vigilantes, mobs or domestic terrorists who were empowered to take matters into their own hands.
As we celebrate progress, we must also acknowledge the relentless nature of injustice, and the need to remain vigilant in order to eradicate it.
"And there are young people out there who need to be reached, who need to know what this is about, and who will eventually dedicate themselves to justice, to peace, to equality and to love."
During Black History Month, we are reminded that civil rights martyrs become catalysts for new movements.