ATLANTA, Georgia (CNN) -- Africa is not a country, and Africans generally do not live in trees or hunt game with spears.
"I have been laughed at because of my accent and asked all the ignorant questions," said iReporter Ajah-Aminata N'daw, 25, of Fall River, Massachusetts.
N'daw emigrated from Dakar, Senegal, in 2001.
Cydney Smith, 17, of Nashville, Tennessee, said she once believed Africa was populated with "uncivilized tribes."
Before Craig visited the continent in 2005 and 2006, he thought of Africans as "half-naked, running around with tigers in the jungle," Craig said, confessing he was unaware tigers roam only Asia.
Chinedu Ezeamuzie, 21, of Athens, Georgia, arrived in 2003.
"They give me the look," he said.
"My whole life I had reaped benefits from being in different circles and bridging them," so he wanted to fit in, he said.
He relaxed his British-trained tongue and tried out for the basketball team, the 6-foot-5 Ezeamuzie said.
"We have all been tortured," said iReporter Vera Ezimora, 24, a Nigerian student living in Baltimore, Maryland.
iReport: Read about questions Ezimora faced when she came to the U.S.
He considers himself African-American, but "it does not mean that I have already assimilated into the culture."
"Honestly, what we need to do is realize both cultures are important," Mohammed said.
He began dating Sonya Roberts, 25, of Austin, Texas, shortly after he arrived in the U.S. in March 2005.
At Piney Woods, where about 35 of the 200 students emigrate from Africa, the school's president, Reginald Nichols, concurs that education is integral to understanding.
Mohammed, too, said he'd like to see more African-Americans dispelling myths about Africa, which is increasingly important as Africans in the U.S. begin wielding more economic influence.
iReporter Faraji Goredenna, 53, of Layton, Utah, said he encourages African-Americans to learn more about Africa and lend a hand to Africans so they know "America's institutions and opportunities are open to them, too."
CNN's Jackie Adams contributed to this report.