"Let It Go" from "Frozen"?
There may be nine nominees for best picture, but only three have a good chance of winning, says Tom O'Neil of the awards handicapping site GoldDerby.com: "12 Years a Slave," "Gravity" and "American Hustle."
"12 Years" is the favorite among his 30 experts, with "Gravity" second at 10-3 odds and "Hustle" at 50-1.
But, points out Clayton Davis of AwardsCircuit.com, in a year with divisive choices -- and "12 Years," though widely hailed, is not necessarily widely loved -- the preferential voting system for best picture can favor everybody's second choice.
"Gravity" is the favorite, says O'Neil, and that could foretell a spacey night.
And when it comes to politicking, DiCaprio has played the game well, says O'Neil, who points out that the "Wolf" star has been making the rounds with humor and class.
"When I look at the list of past winners of best actor, I see movie stars," he says.
"Gravity" is up for several technical awards, including production design, sound editing, sound mixing and visual effects.
"If you see 'Gravity' lose some techs, it's indicative that it's not going all the way," says Davis.
"He's pure Satan," says O'Neil.
"I'm sure she'll lose a couple votes, but not enough to matter," he says.
He makes high-quality, often audience-friendly films with good casts -- "Shakespeare in Love," "The Artist," Quentin Tarantino's films -- and he knows how to promote them.
Weinstein's other major film, "August: Osage County," didn't even get that.
Cuaron not only won the top award from the Directors Guild, but "Gravity" also tied "12 Years" as the best film picked by the Producers Guild -- which, given the PGA's use of the preferential ballot, was an incredible shocker.
"If 'Gravity' wins best picture, Sandra might go along for the rocket ride," he says.
A lot of the foregoing, of course, assumes the Oscars are logical.
And if you need any more proof that the Oscar universe can be as random as a roll of the dice, consider two words: Roberto Benigni.