Of this figure, 40 million were added to the middle class between 2004 and 2010, under the government of President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva.
Still, if there's one thing Brazil is known for worldwide it's a gregarious and energetic population.
That goes not just for conversation, but car horns, TV pitchmen and sound trucks blasting advertisements through the neighborhood from 16 speakers.
Brazilians are hospitable, though, and most will figure out a way to communicate.
Even delicatessens whip up outstanding juices and smoothies, such as graviola, which comes from the spiky, green graviola fruit.
Beaches, jungles, waterfalls -- it's here, often on an epic scale.
For scale, it's hard to match the immensity of the Amazon rainforest, the largest in the world, or the power of Iguazu Falls, which is the second widest and in volume in the world.
These mountains of bricks, rising in intricate forms, border the country's largest cities like Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro.
Stay in a safe area, don't carry more money on you than you can afford to lose, keep your valuables in the hotel safe, use taxis vetted by your hotel, don't take van taxis and make sure you know what part of town you're in at night.
It's cheaper to make some products in the Amazon than other parts of the country, where taxes are legendary.
In Rio de Janeiro, the city puts on free music fests, with top bands performing on stages across the city, while in Recife, at the city's outdoor concert stage across the street from the beach, free concerts range from rock to forro to an event featuring every drummer with a drum kit in the city, more than 100 of them playing in unison.
The Northeast of Brazil has its own country-style beats -- embolada, baio, xote and forro, which is also a hugely popular dance in Brazil.
Since they don't place much stock in personal space, Brazilians have an easier time of breaking through the emotional space, too.
Body language is as important as Portuguese here.
They do have nasty choppers that bite Brazilians swimming in rivers, but they don't strip them to the bone.