While aides in both parties say it's likely Congress will resolve that dispute, Republicans are still licking their wounds after a public backlash over how they handled those issues and fear that Senate Democrats will drag out the fight to score more political points in an election year.
Democrats, who run the Senate, and Republicans, who control the House, acknowledge that outside of the payroll tax cut bill no major legislation is expected to make it through Congress this year.
Tensions between Senate Democrats and Republicans are also high.
"We've had obstructionism on steroids," Reid said.
Democrats are worried Republicans will push for other issues, such as renewing their demand for the approval of the controversial Keystone XL oil pipeline or the elimination of a range of EPA regulations on businesses.
"The only way this process will not go smoothly and through regular order is if the White House chooses to disrupt it for political reasons," said Michael Steel, spokesman for House Speaker John Boehner.
As part of the choreography agreed to last summer, members will get a chance to vote against the president's request, but it's mostly for show because the reality is Congress doesn't have the votes to block an increase.
"If he punts again, it will be clear the White House plans to spend the year on autopilot.
In addition to their push for Keystone, House Republicans are planning votes early this year on legislation that would expand domestic energy production and upgrade transportation infrastructure across the country.
"If the president wishes to ignore Congress and play political games, that's his decision, but by doing so he will own the gridlock," the aide said.
That starts with the highway and FAA bills, which Democrats say will create thousands of jobs.
Democrats need to pick up 25 seats to regain control of the House -- a high hurdle, but one many Democrats feel is within reach because they think voters will blame Republicans for the gridlock in Washington.
The recent announcement by Sen. Ben Nelson, a conservative Democrat from Nebraska, that he would not seek re-election is seen by Republicans as another sign Democrats will lose majority control.