So they began digging, in more ways than one.
One sees why outlaws chose to come here: It's far from anything, it's desolate, it's pockmarked with underground homes, and it offers the possibility of a fresh start and the hope of a fortune.
There's a reconstructed "Star Wars" spaceship, underground hotels, a Volkswagon beetle painted like an opal dangling from a store, signs for underground churches, a kangaroo orphanage, a couple of mining museums, underground home tours, and a pizza place that sells pies with toppings like kangaroo, emu sausage, sweet cranberry, asparagus, onions and Camembert.
Visitors often walk through the graveyard, where several tombstones are decorated with colored lights, and one even has, "Have a drink on me," etched into it, with beer and wine bottles resting nearby, free of charge.
It's a singular, unique, precious stone, and like Coober Pedy itself, what makes it so valuable is the rainbow inside.
Once the stars have risen, guests travel back to the Old Cemetery in Coober Pedy, where a guide delights them with ghost stories of the town's most notable residents.
Fossicking: Tourists in Coober Pedy are welcome to dig for their own opal fortune at public fossicking sites in town.
By bus: Greyhound offers daily service to Coober Pedy from both Adelaide and Alice Springs.
Desert Cave Hotel: Located in the middle of Coober Pedy's main street, this is the town's only four-star hotel.
John's serves up not only traditional pies but also regional specialties like the Malu (smoked kangaroo, tomato sauce, mozzarella cheese, eggplant, marinated tomatoes, roasted peppers, eggplant and olives) and the Coat of Arms (sweet cranberry, mozzarella cheese, Camembert, emu metworst, spinach and smoked kangaroo).
Then, with a full stomach, ask for directions to Coober Pedy's olive grove to continue that Greece-in-Australia experience.
Umberto's: Located in the Desert Cave Hotel, Umberto's is Coober Pedy's finest dining establishment, and is known for its Mod-Oz cuisine, including regional specialties like kangaroo, camel, emu and Australian beef.
If visitors are too tired to move after eating, they can stay in one of the pub's hotel rooms.