While at the car repair facility, look for certifications displayed on the wall.
Frustrated, you repeat the same process until you think they have it, and low and behold, it happens again.
So for those of you who have either never read my columns pertaining to this topic, or have "forgotten," allow me to refresh your memory with a few updates.
This question comes to me from virtually all over the world on a regular basis (Singapore, Scotland, England, Brazil, Calcutta India, just to name a few).
"Tom, people who can afford a car in Calcutta are wealthy, and they usually drive a Rolls Royce, Mercedes, Porsche, Lincoln, or a Cadillac, and NOT a camel!
First of all, start shopping for a repair facility BEFORE you need one.
Call around to various repair shops and ask them if they are members of associations such as: "NAPA Autocare," "ASP," "Parts Plus," "AAA," or "TechNet."
In addition to having state-of-the-art equipment, training, qualified technicians, and information systems in place, the shop must score high with its customers.
If the repair facility passes the test, it can hang the "AAA Approved" shingle.
Ask customers in the shop, "Why do you do business with this shop?"
While at the facility, look for certifications displayed on the wall.
• Do the technicians have certification from ASE, Delco, ASP, and/or manufacturers such as GM, Ford, Chrysler, Toyota, Nissan, etc.
In addition, membership in such associations as the BBB (Better Business Bureau), ATEA (Automotive Technology and Energy Association), ASP (Automotive Service Professionals), ICAR (Inter-Industry Conference on Auto Collision Repair), and ASE (The Institute for Automotive Service Excellence) tells you that the owner of the shop cares about the quality of the workmanship and, most likely, operates by a code of ethics required by the association.
Is the shop equipped with state-of-the-art equipment, such as hand held computer scanners and diagnostic software, digital volt-ohm meters, logic probes, lab scopes, and on-line computer systems like CAS, Alldata, or Mitchell-On-Demand?
Because they deal with these problems every day, plus they have the knowledge, equipment, and information systems necessary to get directly to the problem.
Remember, consider the long-term cost.
Equipment, information systems, and technical training must be up to date!
These days, with the high cost of equipment, training, and information systems, the cost of repair at dealerships, large repair facilities and small shops is balancing out.
In the long run, this approach saves you not only money, but time and aggravation.