1.
The White House is skeptical, cautioning that it could be a stall tactic.
"The images from this massacre are sickening: Men, women, children lying in rows, killed by poison gas.
But when, with modest effort and risk, we can stop children from being gassed to death, and thereby make our own children safer over the long run, I believe we should act.
That's what makes us exceptional," he said.
"It was not a wasted speech," said Cummings, noting that his constituents are tired of war.
But, simply put, Americans are sick of war.
Still, Obama laid out a strategic rationale for military force, saying that what happens in Syria could affect allies in the region, including Israel -- all in the U.S. interest, he said.
And a failure to stand against the use of chemical weapons would weaken prohibitions against other weapons of mass destruction, and embolden Assad's ally, Iran, which must decide whether to ignore international law by building a nuclear weapon or to take a more peaceful path," Obama said.
"The purpose of this strike would be to deter Assad from using chemical weapons, to degrade his regime's ability to use them and to make clear to the world that we will not tolerate their use," Obama said.
"A targeted strike can make Assad, or any other dictator, think twice before using chemical weapons."
4.
"If we fail to act, the Assad regime will see no reason to stop using chemical weapons," he said, adding that continued use could make it easier for terrorists to get their hands on them.
Al-Assad has said he would respond.
Neither Assad nor his allies have any interest in escalation that would lead to his demise," Obama said.
"He was trying to convince people of a war they don't want, but he's also saying wait," Riedel noted.
Former House Speaker Newt Gingrich, a co-host of CNN's "Crossfire," said Obama was misguided in going on national television with the situation so fluid and having told Congress to hold off on considering a force resolution to give diplomacy a chance.