The Trayvon Martin family was also pleased that Corey would make the charging decision.
The attorneys also said that they are concerned with Zimmerman's emotional and physical well-being and even suggested that he may be suffering from PTSD (post traumatic stress disorder).
But it is rarely done so publicly and with so much information divulged about the inner workings of the lawyer-client relationship.
During her three-year-plus as state attorney of the 4th Judicial Circuit, Jacksonville's Duval County jail has seen an increase in the population, despite a drop in crime in the city.
In a written statement she provided in response to her detractors about the Fernandez case, Corey defended her decision to charge Fernandez as an adult by stating, "We are blessed in the 4th Circuit to have a great working relationship with ... public defenders," and "We asked for prayers for our two-year-old victim, David, and for Cristian Fernandez."
I believe these are wonderful people who are asking for a peaceful approach to this case, while still demanding the answers they deserve.
To prove manslaughter in Florida, Corey's team would have to prove that Zimmerman's acts caused Martin's death.
Florida's law states that a person who is not engaged in an unlawful activity and who is attacked in any place where he or she has a right to be has no duty to retreat and has the right to stand his or her ground and meet force with force, including deadly force ... to prevent death or great bodily harm.
Florida's statute makes it clear that the justification is not available to a person who initially provokes the use of force against himself, unless such force is so great that the person reasonably believes that he is in imminent danger of death or great bodily harm and that he has exhausted every reasonable means to escape.
Martin left the home of his father's fiancee on February 26 to buy skittles and an ice tea.
Martin notices Zimmerman is following him and tells his girlfriend, Dee Dee, with whom he is on the phone.
Witnesses say they heard angry words, heard someone crying for help (many explain it sounded like the voice of a younger person) and then a single gunshot.
The incident happens 70 yards from the home Martin was walking to, not near Zimmerman's SUV.
Zimmerman isn't tested for drug or alcohol consumption and is allowed to leave the police station with the clothes he was wearing that night.