While Warhol's trip to Beijing was his first and only visit to mainland China, his engagement with the country started a decade earlier, inspired by former U.S. president Richard Nixon's rapprochement with the communist power in 1972.
"Mao was front-page news in America and that was often where Warhol got his biggest inspiration," said Eric Shiner, director of Pittsburgh's Andy Warhol Museum, which organized the exhibition.
The industrialist Alfred Siu had invited him to the city to attend the opening of a night club, decorated with portraits of Britain's Prince Charles and Princess Diana that he had commissioned from the artist.
China's communist uniformity, with its blue sea of unisex Mao suits, appealed to Warhol's aesthetic obsession with repetition.
Warhol posed for Makos' camera with gestures he adopted from the tai chi practitioners he observed outdoors -- and even adopted the bared-teeth expression of the guardian lion in the Forbidden City in one photo.
"One of the reasons why I wanted to do this show is so the general public can learn about the artist behind these iconic works and realize (Mao and Marilyn Monroe) are just a few of thousands of images he made," he said.
"For the first time, I learned the charm of pop art," Weibo user @Yanmingdu wrote about the exhibition, while user @GracieMankedun posted, "Just saw Andy Warhol's exhibition and I got a little confused.
Christie's first private Warhol sale in Hong Kong last November attracted a mostly Asian demographic and managed to sell nearly half of its lots, Good said.
An editorial in the state-backed Global Times newspaper suggested that while Warhol may not have had ill intent, the "provocative" blotches of color splattered on Mao's face suggested that he was wearing make-up -- a disrespectful portrayal of the iconic leader.
"Ai Weiwei loves the idea of multiples," Makos pointed out, noting Ai's most famous installations, including the 9,000 backpacks representing the schoolchildren killed in the 2008 Sichuan earthquake, and the millions of porcelain sunflower seeds he poured into the Turbine Hall of London's Tate Modern museum.
Ai and Xu aside, the Warhol aesthetic and vocabulary has deeply influenced Chinese contemporary artists over the past 10-15 years, with its characteristic combinations of social realist imagery with pop culture and iconic brands.
Maybe (the Chinese) don't know him, but they know his work," Makos said, predicting that Warhol "will get bigger and bigger in China."
To this day you can still find Campbell soup on the shelf in the grocery store and you can see multiples of them," Makos said.