After dating for more than two years, Ferguson and his boyfriend, Justin Mikita, decided to take the next step.
After much consideration and debate, the newly engaged couple decided to go public with their private news, not because they don't enjoy their privacy -- they certainly do -- but because in doing so they knew they could shine a light on a cause dear to their hearts.
Jesse Tyler Fergusson: I feel like when you tackle any subject with comedy, humor and wits, you're going to get a lot further than if you just give the dry facts of the cause.
Ferguson: We kind of felt like the only way to legitimize why we wanted to do this was to announce that we were actually engaged.
I've always found the term fiance in gay or straight relationships to be completely strange.
CNN: A lot of boyfriends, and girlfriends in Maine, Maryland and Washington got some good news on Election Day when same-sex marriage was legalized in those states by popular vote.
I just feel like it shouldn't be up to the majority to vote on a minority's civil rights.
This is America and (marriage equality) should be part of the "United" part of our country.
Nobody's looking to change the meaning of what it means to be married.
Ferguson: I selfishly wanted to get involved in the fashion world anyway, but in a way that didn't feel like a huge undertaking.
We'll start a bow-tie line and funnel the proceeds into a foundation for marriage equality.
People are always trying to test us and break us and find out the darkness, but there's really nothing to tell.
We're kind of on this roller coaster together, and it's a very bonding experience.
We'll go to a birthday party or get together at someone's house and bring our husbands, wives, fiances, boyfriends and girlfriends, and it feels like a huge extended family.
We're always checking in with one another, and some walls definitely go up to protect some people.
We're kind of waiting for some pieces to fall into place and to see what my work schedule is like next summer.
I proposed to Justin because I wanted to be married.
I haven't been to the Catholic Church in years so I would feel really weird to try and bring in those traditions -- it's just not us.
But I'm just excited to get married and sit in the marriage place for a little while.
But, yeah, we both really want kids very much.