"President Bush lives not 10 minutes from me and I think it would be a concern," said Sims, apparently referring to concerns the Secret Service might have.
U.S. District Judge Paul Friedman asked if it is accurate she is worried about her brother's personal safety in Dallas, since that is the city where President John F. Kennedy was assassinated in 1963.
Hinckley was staying at the home of his sister and her husband in Dallas on October 13, 1980, when, according to testimony in his 1982 trial, he went to a pawn shop to buy two .22-caliber revolvers, one of which he used to shoot Reagan and the others five months later.
The gun purchase was not mentioned in court Tuesday, and the government has not said it would be more dangerous for Hinckley to live in Dallas than anywhere else.
He would be required to meet at least once a month with a psychiatrist who is already counseling him in Williamsburg and to continue his weekly visits to a therapist there.
If the judge were to grant convalescent leave at the hospital's discretion at the end of the eight longer visits now requested, it would be unlikely to happen until at least the fall of 2012, since as the filing requires a minimum two-week interval between each of the new visits.
Hinckley at one time told some of his caregivers at St. Elizabeths that he was engaged to CB, who had been a patient there.
Previously the court heard testimony that Sims had taken her brother to a singles group meeting in Williamsburg a number of years ago, and he was asked to leave.
She and her brother believed members of the group knew they were coming, but that was not the case, she said.
She said Hinckley and his family members find they are able to go to certain restaurants where people know who they are but are welcoming.
According to a report by Secret Service agents who were watching Hinckley without his knowledge, on one outing last July, Hinckley did not attend a movie and instead went to a bookstore where he passed by an aisle of books that included an account of the day Reagan was shot.
She replied the only time she has noticed surveillance is when she drives Hinckley out of her mother's gated community and back to St. Elizabeths.
Sims said the agent asked the Hinckley family's location and requested that they wait for him to catch up.