(CNN) -- Former U.S. Sen. Arlen Specter, who embodied a vanishing breed of liberal Republicanism before switching to the Democratic Party at the twilight of his political career, died Sunday after a long battle with cancer, his family announced.
He was also one of America's most prominent Jewish politicians, a rare Republican in a category dominated by Democrats over the decades.
"From his days stamping out corruption as a prosecutor in Philadelphia to his three decades of service in the Senate, Arlen was fiercely independent -- never putting party or ideology ahead of the people he was chosen to serve," Obama said in a written statement on Specter's death.
He didn't track how his comments were playing out in the press.
"He was fundamentally a pragmatist who could bend with the times," Madonna said, and he believed greatly that government could help people.
He had a few election losses but he was undeterred by defeat, the prospects of losing and the challenges he faced.
He was in the U.S. Air Force during the Korean War from 1951 to 1953, serving as a second lieutenant in the Air Force Office of Special Investigations.
He served on the Warren Commission at the recommendation of Rep. Gerald Ford, later president.
Even though he was a registered Democrat, Specter ran successfully for Philadelphia district attorney on the Republican ticket in 1965 and eventually registered as a Republican.
"During his tenure in the Senate, Specter championed Pennsylvania's economy and took an active interest in foreign affairs, meeting with dozens of world leaders as well as supporting appropriations to fight the global HIV/AIDS pandemic and backing free trade agreements between the U.S. and under-developed countries," according to a bio from the University of Pennsylvania Law School.
He participated in the confirmation hearings of 14 U.S. Supreme Court nominees, the Penn bio says.
He criticized Republicans for President Bill Clinton's impeachment and voted in favor of the Iraq war.
During the 1990s, he briefly announced a run for president but eventually dropped the effort and endorsed Bob Dole.
After the loss, Specter moved from the halls of Congress to those of academia, taking on a new role at the University of Pennsylvania Law School as an adjunct professor.
"For the past quarter-century, he's also been a Zelig-like national figure," the Philadelphia magazine article said, referring to the Woody Allen character from the film of the same name who changed his persona as his surroundings and circumstances changed.