Among them, exactly how many people are unaccounted for at a remote natural gas facility after three days of chaos that ended Saturday, leaving at least 23 hostages and dozens of Islamist militants dead.
I fear the numbers will be updated with more victims later today when the search operation is expected to end," said Mohammed Said, Algeria's communication minister.
The hostages were brought from Algeria to the base Friday, the official said, and are being flown to their home countries as their conditions warrant.
British Foreign Secretary William Hague echoed those remarks, adding his government is "working hard to get definitive information" about each individual.
The In Amenas plant is run by Algeria's state oil company, in cooperation with foreign firms such as Statoil and BP, and because of that employed workers from several countries.
And Sahara News' report Sunday claimed Belmoktar said "40 immigrant Jihadists and supporters of Muslim countries" led the siege in retaliation for the Mali offensive.
Some survivors described their harrowing escapes by rigging up disguises and sneaking to safety with locals, with at least one survivor running for his life with plastic explosives strapped around his neck.
On Sunday, an American lawmaker said the Algerian government turned down U.S. offers to help during the crisis.
In addition to combing the sprawling desert site, Algerian forces are searching hospitals and medical centers around the country, as well as towns and villages near the targeted site, according to a statement Sunday from Statoil.
One man -- identified as Yann Desjeux -- died after telling the French newspaper Sud Ouest on Thursday that he and 34 other hostages of nine different nationalities were treated well.
Three hostages were on their way back to Malaysia, the country's state-run news agency reported Sunday.
One Romanian lost his life, the country's Foreign Ministry said Saturday.
At least one American, identified as Frederick Buttaccio, is among the dead, the State Department said.