(CNN) -- Travel warnings from the U.S. Department of State didn't stop Faith Hentschel, 65, from venturing to Iran this May to visit the rustic sites in ancient Persepolis and the colorful bazaars in Tehran.
And with news of the arrest of three American backpackers, along with the June election riots and government crackdown, Iran may be an even harder sell, some travel companies said.
U.S. passports are valid for travel to Iran and visas are required to enter the country, according to the State Department Web site.
"It's made well-known that the destination [Iran] could be perilous for American citizens," said Darby Holladay, spokesman at the State Department.
The two men and one woman, said to be seasoned travelers, began their trip in Turkey and went into Iraq before crossing the unmarked border into Iran.
Pauline Frommer, creator of the Pauline Frommer's Travel Guides, said it's  safer when visiting countries in conflict to use travel companies and tour operators that rely on local accommodations and guides.
Despite worries about safety, demand for visiting Iran has grown in recent years.
Spiekermann Travel Service, Inc., one of the oldest travel agencies that specializes in Iranian travel, has booked more than 350 tours to the country since it began operating there in 1995.
I don't let my people roam around in the middle of nowhere.
Far Horizons Archaeological & Cultural Trips, Inc. in San Anselmo, California planned a second trip to Iran for October after their first trip in May sold out.
Participants are required to abide by Iranian law, which means women must dress conservatively and cover their heads with scarves.
If travelers can't afford to spend between $6,000 and $10,000 on organized excursions of  two or three weeks and decide to backpack, they still need to follow the rules, said Jon Dorn, editor in chief of Backpackers Magazine.
Dave Stevenson, who oversees the Web site www.travel-security-and-safety.com, said hikers should be equipped with GPS systems, satellite or cell phones and maps when traveling in border areas, especially in conflict zones.