It had yellow images of corn, the crop that epitomizes politics in the first-in-the-nation caucus state.
As Paul blitzed across the Hawkeye State this week, holding events at Iowa GOP offices and campaigning for local candidates, he hardly played coy to the question of whether he was running for President.
At his first stop on Monday, which actually took place in Omaha, Nebraska, near the Iowa state line, Paul held a news conference after touring a tech startup venue with Nebraska GOP Senate hopeful Ben Sasse.
In Iowa, Paul stressed that he never introduced legislation that solely "targeted" Israel and argued that he strongly favors sending money to the country.
Video of the incident shows Paul, at the behest of his press aide, quickly getting up from the table and getting away from the confrontation.
While Paul has voted in favor of sending more aid to Israel this year and has proposed cutting off aid to the Palestinians, his past statements and views on foreign policy are rooted in his libertarian leanings — a perspective still largely outside of mainstream Republican thought.
He points to Paul's frequent travel to the state, his efforts to build a wider GOP, and the network of supporters built by his father's presidential campaigns the past two cycles.
But Paul knows he needs more than just the libertarian wing of the party.
Paul spoke at five GOP offices this week and five other events in a tour that took him around the state in a 730-mile loop.
At each stop, Paul's main message sought to counter post-2012 perceptions that the Republican Party should change its message.
Part of that includes a push to speak out against domestic surveillance programs and mount a strong defense of the Fourth Amendment.
He didn't talk about abortion, contraception or same-sex marriage until audience members asked him about the issues at one of his final events.
Paul left Iowa before this weekend's annual summit hosted by the Family Leader, a group that's influential with social conservatives in the state.
Paul said he couldn't make it due to a scheduling conflict.