The story and the reasons, leading off today's broadcast of CNN Student News!
More than 1,700 flights have been canceled at New York city's 3 major airports, though the city's public schools stayed open.
Some of this can be blamed on the storm system that iced out the southeast.
SAVIDGE: Atlanta has relied on two basic facts -- southern snowstorms are rare, and the best way to get rid of the snow is to simply let it melt.
In fact the roads are still so bad I couldn't get to the experts I wanted to interview, so I called them.
CUNNINGHAM [ON PHONE]: There is certainly some lost income associated with hourly workers not being able to get in and get paid.
You would need so many of them it would be $100 million or more to shell out in order to truly cover all of the interstates.
Millions of dollars, maybe tens of millions, maybe more, lost over what appears to be this 3 day period?
It appears that the business community, at least for now, is in agreement with the city that these events are so rare that its not worth the expense of investment of equipment and personnel.
The president and first lady, whom you see here, were also planning to spend time at the University of Arizona in Tucson, where they were going to visit with victims' families.
Justin writes that even if the suspect is mentally unstable, he was stable enough to target the Congresswoman, and therefore should be tried and thrown into prison.
And on our blog: Jacob believes that in order for someone to carry a gun, they need to have a mental stability test.
And of course at our blog at CNNStudentNews.com!
AZUZ: Parts of Queensland, Australia are suffering through what's being called the worst natural disaster in the state's history.
This marker on a riverside pub showed what to expect.
BLACK: All along the river people desperately packed what they could into cars and trailers.
Philip Johnston got his family out before the floods reached his home.
BLACK: We rowed with Adam Beswick to his home, past others with water already up to the ceiling.
BESWICK: I would probably think up to this ridge here but not the main ridge.
UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We couldn't evacuate before and we just couldn't go anywhere so we ended up calling the police.
BLACK: The extent of that power will be known soon with flood waters expected to peak here on Thursday.
Then: Head to CNNStudentNews.com, and scroll down the page to the "How Do I" box on the left side.
Of everyone who's ever passed through the middle of downtown Atlanta, this guy's gotta be one of the only people ever, to do it on ice skates.
It's like Peachtree on ice: A once-in-a-lifetime sight to ski.