You won't get a burger there, though -- its cash registers and soft-serve machines have given way to old tape drives and modern computers run by a rogue team of hacker engineers who've rechristened the place McMoon's.
Thanks to the technical savvy and DIY engineering of the team at LOIRP, it's being seen at a higher resolution than was ever previously possible.
High- and low-resolution photos were then scanned into strips called framelets using something akin to an old fax machine reader.
The brilliant and ballsy engineering was typical of NASA during its golden age, a time when it was also more closely linked to other government agencies with an interest in taking pictures from space.
The photos were stored with remarkably high fidelity on the tapes, but at the time had to be copied from projection screens onto paper, sometimes at sizes so large that warehouses and even old churches were rented out to hang them up.
They changed hands several times over the years, almost getting tossed out before landing in storage in Moorpark, California.
At the same time, they retrieved the tapes from a storage unit in nearby Moorpark, and things gradually began to take shape.
After kluging through countless engineering problems (try finding a chemical substitute for whale oil to lubricate tape heads), the LOIRP team was able to single out and reproduce the famous earthrise image.
All they saw was something that had already been through one generation of copying.
Despite the advances in computing power and optics, Cowing says the terabytes of images recovered at LOIRP are often even more detailed than those taken by LRO, capable of being blown up to billboard size without losing resolution.
The seven or so people tinkering away inside maintain an open-source mentality about their work, making all images and their technological discoveries free to the public.
Their data have been used to correct figures from the time about Earth's arctic ice levels, and have helped identify an El Nino-type event in the '60s.
The images and information that LOIRP has recovered will be submitted as the official record of the original sattelite mission.
"We feel that we're completing the Lunar Orbiter 1 through 5 missions.
Copyright 2011 Wired.com.