In an emotional interview, Behar examines how domestic abuse starts and why it's hard to stop.
Joining me now is someone who lived it: actress, ex-wife of former heavyweight champ Mike Tyson and spokesperson for the National Domestic Violence Hotline, Robin Givens.
Givens: Even sitting now, you know, here with you, it shakes you up.
You were saying to me before that it's always the same story.
... And what's amazing is that I find that my story is their story; their story is my story -- down to the details.
When I wrote my book, I was somewhere talking about something.
Givens: I was hit for the first time before I was married.
Three days, absolutely not.
And then you're consoling them.
Behar: It must have touched you a little bit, too, like here's this big heavyweight champion crying ...
... To see a man crying like that and promising and professing his love, I thought well, he must love me.
It's been worse than anything I could possibly imagine.
Sometimes I think he's trying to scare me.
Barbara knew what was going on in our lives and encouraged me to be honest.
I don't know specifically, but [he said] the best punch he ever threw was against me and that he punched me in the head and I bounced from one wall to the other.
Givens: Well, he had said that he was going to get help.
Behar: One of the most influential women in the world used her considerable power to speak up about domestic abuse.
I've been saying this to women for years, love doesn't hurt.
We all know Nicole Brown Simpson, O.J.
Denise Brown: I am doing great.
And then you're talking about what Oprah said -- if they hit you once, they'll hit you again.
You know, it's the cycle of domestic violence, which is about the power and control of one human being over another -- the verbal, the emotional, the psychological abuse, you know, the chipping away at one's self-esteem.
I'm the best thing for you.
Behar: If you read the Internet now, there's some hostility toward Rihanna.
I spoke to a gentleman, Dr. Donald Dutton.
And our society does not take it serious enough ... until, of course, there's a murder or there's a celebrity or something of that nature, which is really sad.
She doesn't have to explain it.
Get help now.