And it is thanks to the vision of these select few that the sport of FootGolf -- a game, unsurprisingly, combining elements of football and golf -- was born and has been spreading its way around the globe ever since.
"He created everything, from how the game is played, down to the look of the players.
Korsten had played an early interpretation of the game during his days at Tottenham Hotspur, when he and his teammates would attempt to kick a football from the training pitch back to the changing rooms in as little time as possible.
While there is obviously the relaxing aspect of walking around a golf course on a sunny day, former English Premier League player Bryan Hughes also feels that the sport represents another opportunity for footballers to flex their competitive muscles.
But while golf is in good health when it comes to attracting footballers, the sport has lost players in recent years -- According to a report in The New York Times, a recent survey by the U.S. National Golf Foundation estimated the game has lost five million in the last decade, with 20% of the existing 25 million golfers likely to quit in the next few years.
Since Jansen's inaugural competition -- open to a mix of Dutch and Belgian professional footballers -- the sport has gone from strength to strength.
And it is the sport's ability to appeal to all that means a FootGolf course somewhere has likely played host to either a family visit, a first date, a corporate business trip or even, as was the case in the UK, an 81-year-old grandmother's day out with her grandson.
So much so, that the governing body has taken the steps to set up its very own UK FootGolf Academy Scheme, due to start for business in May, and headed up by Hughes, who previously played for Birmingham City, Charlton Athletic and Hull City and is now a player-assistant manager at Scarborough Athletic.
The potential there is huge and it is something that I'm really looking forward to," Hughes said.
Some of the world's finest players go from competition to competition looking to accumulate points, before a European champion is eventually crowned at the final stage in Portugal in November.
The U.S. currently leads the way when it comes to different courses with 90, while the UK, now boasting 30, has made impressive progress to move up to second, given it had just two at the beginning of 2013.
"In five years' time, every country in the world that has got golf courses will be a member of the Federation for International FootGolf," O'Connor said.
That's how big an impact the sport is having around the world."