Bringing you stories from all over the U.S. today, and we start things off in Colorado.
AZUZ: That's where authorities are trying to put out a wildfire that's been burning for a couple days now.
The planes can only fly in certain conditions, though, so if the weather gets bad or the wind picks up, that can be problematic.
It got weaker as it moved across the state, but Hermine still dumped huge amounts of rain on parts of Texas.
The Quran is the holy book of the Islamic religion.
TERRY JONES, CHURCH PASTOR, DOVE WORLD OUTREACH: We feel that the message that we are trying to send is much more important than people being offended.
We believe that we cannot back off of the truth of the dangers of Islam, of the dangers of radical Islam just because people are going to be offended.
AZUZ: Well, there are always interesting comments on this, not only from the people involved in the story, but from you.
AZUZ: Some surprising numbers, and those are part of the reason why the United Nations created International Literacy Day.
The organization says that literacy is a basic human right because it's the main tool for learning.
You know that; you're aware of it; you see it all the time.
Principal Akihisa Shirota believes it so much, he joins the students.
His lack of experience in this setting is what led the school to recruit him.
He runs the school more like a corporation; students, his workers.
In the three years since Shirota has been principal, the school claims higher test scores.
It's 6:40 in the evening and students are still here at Wada Junior High School.
The bottom line, says this former businessman, if Japan's corporations must adapt and compete in a global economy, it only makes sense that, so too, must Japan's schools.
Turns out, people had a lot of time on their hands over the long Labor Day weekend.
And for some, it's in the face.
AZUZ: But we're not still talking about arm wrestling.
AZUZ: But if a "haybale obstacle course" isn't your speed, saddle up for a one-wheeled whirl across the Brooklyn Bridge!
It's easy to see how all this pedal-spinning can make your head spin.
AZUZ: A world record is always cool, even if group dances are a little hokey.
Have a great one.