"There is big advantage to moving first, and when you're a whale like both Jeb and Romney are, and you jump into that pool first, its hard for anyone else to squeeze in," said B. Wayne Hughes, a California billionaire and Republican donor who has not committed to supporting a candidate.
Bush has been a well-liked figure in the center-right donor set for years, thanks to his widespread family connections and the perks and ambassadorships doled out by two previous Bush White Houses.
But their moves are also complicating things for Christie, who is still expected to launch a presidential bid but is moving at a much slower place than Bush or Romney.
Christie's team insists the Romney and Bush developments have had little bearing on his decision-making process — or his ability to fund a potential campaign.
He remains on the RGA's executive committee, and plans to connect with many of the same donors at February gathering of the RGA in Washington.
Christie, have a leg up on donor world," the source said.
But in the early stages of a presidential primary, the whims of big donors have outsized importance, especially in a post-Citizens United world where a single rich person can prop up a candidate with a well-funded super PAC.
Once the donor primary ends and the actual primary begins, Christie may be on better footing in a race against Bush and Romney.
"He is kind of a hell-raiser, and nobody is going to say that about Jeb Bush or Mitt Romney," said Leighton Lord, a South Carolina attorney who hosted a reception for Christie in the early primary state this week.
"He is not like a lot of the other folks that are running that are more cautious and calculating.
He is likely to launch a political action committee in the coming weeks, multiple GOP sources said, and he is heading to a big conservative gathering in Iowa after this week's excursion to South Carolina.
"We have got to find somebody who has the substance and the integrity, but is also a celebrity.
Christie's speech to the audience was "short on conservative red meat, but long on how he's the guy that can win," said one Republican who attended the afternoon session, held at a Columbia law firm.
"The man tells it like it is...we like that in S.C.!"