In light of the swine flu, the U.S. State Department and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention issued a warning against any non-essential travel to Mexico.
Efforts to contain the outbreak by restricting travel would be unlikely to work without "draconian measures," said Dr. Keiji Fukuda, the agency's assistant director-general.
Reports of the illness in Mexico couldn't have come at a worse time for the country's tourism industry, which is already grappling with negative publicity about drug-cartel fueled violence.
iReporter Dyana Pari Nafissi works in international business development in Mexico City and said tourism in the country had already been dealt a blow by fears of violence.
Two Mexicana crew members who didn't want to be named said about 60 percent of the passengers wore masks during the flight.
Alberto Morales, another businessman, said he wore a mask in the Mexico City airport and on the plane.
"People are afraid about the flu, but we have many precautions and the government has a good sense for this trouble," Morales said.
"My wife and I were a little concerned, but you know we haven't seen anybody sick in our resort, and we haven't seen anybody sick at the airport," he said.
Steve Weakland, border security coordinator for the United States Customs and Border Protection  Atlanta field office, said all of his personnel have received illness recognition training.
Teresa Roberts planned to take her mom to Akumal, Mexico, for Mother's Day and said she was more worried about traveling to New York for business than she is about contracting swine flu south of the border.
"I don't drink a lot of water in Mexico ever, and I am really more concerned about the drug issues in Mexico than I am the swine flue," Barton said.
Rochelle Yates said a client of her New York City-based Yates Travel is planning to take plenty of antiseptic products on an upcoming trip to Cancun.
"My clients are people who travel all over the world, and they know that you have to take precautions regardless," Yates said.