He bought stakes in Goldman Sachs and General Electric.
Schroeder, who worked on Wall Street as an insurance industry analyst, met Buffett 10 years ago when his company, Berkshire Hathaway, bought a big insurance company.
"I have about 300 hours of recorded interviews and the rest of the time I observed him, I watched him make decisions and talk on the phone, went through files.
He likes his steaks bloody rare and hanging off the plate, they're so big."
Schroeder: I think it's fair to say that throughout his career, every time there's been a bubble and it's burst, his reputation has grown.
Schroeder: He would say that human nature doesn't change, and that fear and greed are always the two drivers of the market.
Schroeder: Last spring, when Bear Stearns was being taken over by J.P. Morgan ... he talked about the dominoes falling, and how, if that happened, the government could face some very unpleasant choices and have to take drastic measures.
He understands the factors that are burdening the country, the federal deficit, the consumer debt, the infrastructure spending that we're going to have to do, but he has a belief in American ingenuity which over the long term has enabled our country to solve problems that seemed insurmountable in the past.
So he does have a faith in the long-term prospects of the country.
The book refers to him, in my words, as a great white shark, and the book describes the battle between his avarice and his higher principles.
At times, his avarice won.
He was criticizing Wall Street and saying if you want to make a lot of money, hold your nose and go to Wall Street, and at the same time he was already there.
Schroeder: You've got an economy in which financial intermediaries who don't add anything to the economy ... have in the past two decades stripped off huge amounts of fees, particularly buyout funds, and hedge funds and funds of funds, and he's very, very critical of the amount of fees that have been taken out.
He thinks in most cases executives are being paid to sit in a chair whether they perform or not.
Schroeder: That people should think for the long run and make their personal decisions for the long run and build a margin of safety into their lives as best they can.
And be realistic about what you can afford, because having a financial cushion means you can sleep at night, and that's worth more than a big-screen TV.