That contradiction -- with Sybrina Fulton insisting it was her son, Trayvon, who cried out, while Gladys Zimmerman said it was her son, George, who was yelling after being attacked by the teen -- was central to Friday's court proceedings, and central to the second-degree murder case unfolding in central Florida.
"I haven't heard him like that before," she said as her son wiped away tears in the courtroom.
Contrast that to the very different story offered a few hours earlier by Sybrina Fulton, who was stoic as prosecutor Bernie de la Rionda played the 911 call.
Moreover, the case prompted some to question Florida's "Stand Your Ground" law, which gives a person facing a "presumption of fear of death or great bodily harm" extra protections should they respond with force instead of retreat.
And of course, there was the testimony of Rachel Jeantel, who said she'd been on the phone with her friend Trayvon Martin in the minutes before his death.
She testified that she'd heard Martin call out, "Why are you following me for?"
But so does Gladys Zimmerman of her own son, the defense lawyer says, arguing that "all the other evidence would suggest" that the screaming voice is indeed that of George Zimmerman.
The six jurors, all women, will weigh both mother's credibility, others' testimony and a host of evidence.
The 22-year-old college student said he was certain that it was his brother, even as he added that he had "heard him (Martin) yell" before, but "not like that."
He said he originally heard the 911 call on TV and without any further information or prompts, immediately recognized his nephew's voice.
His heart was bleeding until there was no blood left," the medical examiner said as autopsy photos lingered on a courtroom screen, adding that Martin was "suffering (and) in pain."
The notes revealed that Bao had changed his mind about a couple of issues: the amount of time Martin survived after being shot and whether the marijuana in the teenager's system was enough to affect him.
The medical examiner, though, said he couldn't remember each detail and that he'd trusted that his technicians properly followed procedures.
The judge, though, denied the motion -- after which, around 5 p.m., the prosecution formally rested its case.