The phone-hacking scandal forced him to close the British tabloid that was his pride and joy, News of the World, and for a time even appeared to jeopardize his global empire, valued by Forbes at $9.4 billion.
This month, Forbes estimated the net worth of Murdoch and his family at $14.5 billion, adding that stocks from the two companies had boosted his worth by more than $2 billion in the past year.
His father, Keith Murdoch, was a reporter who exposed the horrific conditions experienced by Anzac troops fighting at Gallipoli in World War I, and went on to manage a large newspaper company.
"I was raised in a newspaper family by a father who believed that the newspaper was among the most important instruments of human freedom," Murdoch declared in his 2008 Boyer Lectures.
"I was so young and so new to the business that when I pulled my car into the lot on my first day, the garage attendant admonished me, 'Hey sonny, you can't park here.'"
He was soon looking to expand the company: After buying up other local papers across the country, in 1964, he set up Australia's first national newspaper, The Australian, and in 1969, moved overseas to purchase his first UK paper, News of the World, shortly followed by The Sun.
"He was the man who tamed the print unions so that newspapers became incredibly profitable," said Martin Dunn, former deputy editor of the Sun and News of the World.
"If I see things in the paper which I think are incorrect, I'll certainly point it out and say 'so-and-so made a mistake here,' or 'this wasn't as good a report as was in the opposition newspapers,'" he told the makers of BBC documentary "Who's Afraid of Rupert Murdoch?"
On the same program, Robert Spitzler, former managing editor of the New York Post said Murdoch's role went beyond commenting and suggesting.
In a 1968 television interview, Murdoch admitted that he enjoyed the power his position gave him, but -- in remarks that now seem more relevant than ever -- insisted: "We have more responsibility than power, I think.