The Southern Association of Colleges and Schools is currently reviewing a scathing report, prepared by former federal prosecutor Ken Wainstein, which showed thousands of UNC students took fraudulent classes, some of them multiple times.
UNC officials told CNN say they are still deciding how to try to remedy the fact that so many students graduated with credits from the so-called "paper classes" on their transcripts.
Gerald Gurney, president of the Drake Group for academic integrity in collegiate sport and the former president of the National Association of Academic Advisers for Athletics, called the UNC fraud the largest and most nefarious academic scandal in the history of the NCAA.
That assistant, Debbie Crowder, and professor Julius Nyang'oro then worked with several advisers in athletics to help student-athletes on the brink of eligibility keep their GPAs up, according to the report.
She sounded the alarm on paper classes and was a lone voice against the university when it insisted that the whole scheme fell to the shoulders of Nyang'oro and Crowder alone.
She said that in January -- a month before the Wainstein and his firm, Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft, was hired by UNC to do another investigation into what happened over the last two decades.
Willingham says it's because they were admitted to UNC just to play -- and they couldn't keep up in the classroom the way they could keep up on the field, she says.
Willingham sat at her kitchen table this week, watching the University of North Carolina admit to nearly two decades of academic fraud.
But it's unclear why previous investigations did not uncover the damning emails, or whether the statements of the athletic advisers were different in the past.
The investigators made no findings about Dean Smith, the legendary basketball coach and sports icon who coached 36 years at UNC.
Reacting Saturday to the report, Williams told reporters "it's a very sad time for me" as not only UNC's head basketball coach, but also a former assistant coach and student there.