But that's changed over the years, and now movie collectibles are a big business, with high-profile props going for hundreds of thousands of dollars.
Of those, the location of four pairs is currently known, including one that resides in the Smithsonian.
For now, the case remains open, and the shoes are still at-large.
The thieves left the damaged Captain America bike, which was later restored, and now resides at the National Motorcycle Museum in Anamosa, Iowa.
In October 2008, one of these props (it's unclear which one it was) was discovered missing from its display case at Elstree Studios in Hertfordshire, England.
For promotional purposes, plaster casts of the bird were made upon the film's release, and Elisha Cook, Jr., a character actor who played a henchman in the film, got his hands on one.
That is, of course, until the day it disappeared in 2007.
He put the $25,000 towards the creation of a new, original design of the Maltese Falcon that is a more stylized interpretation than the one used in the 1941 film.
In March 2000, a few guys got their hands on the ultimate movie collector's item when they stole 55 Oscars just days before the Academy Awards ceremony.
Lawrence Ledent was given six months in prison, five years probation, had to pay the Academy $1,050, and pay Roadway Express the full amount of the reward they offered to Fulgear.
As for the three missing Oscars, one was found in 2003 during a Miami drug raid, but the other two are still out there somewhere.
Not coincidentally, Gustafson worked as a security guard at Warner Bros. at the time.
To prevent their very expensive, one-of-a-kind prop from breaking, the producers made two solid rubber copies that were indistinguishable from the original at a distance, and could be knocked around during stunt scenes without getting damaged.
Oddly enough though, about a month after the film was released, highly accurate plastic replicas of Deckard's gun began appearing for sale on the collector's market.
All rights reserved.