When he stalked, kidnapped and raped Katie Callaway Hall on November 22, 1976, he fulfilled an overpowering sexual fantasy that he had methodically planned for weeks, according to court records obtained by CNN.
Those facts came to light in Garrido's 1977 trial, in which he was convicted and sentenced to 50 years for kidnapping and rape.
But in this case, Hall recounted her ordeal last week in an interview on CNN's "Larry King Live," saying it changed her life forever.
And, police in Antioch disclosed last week that Garrido was charged with raping a 14-year-old in 1972, but the charges were dropped because the victim refused to testify.
The documents reveal a pattern of behavior that Garrido is accused of repeating in the 1991 kidnapping of Jaycee Dugard, who was recently found after being kept in a shed for 18 years.
Tucked behind overgrown trees and a fence were tents, outbuildings and a soundproof shed where Dugard lived with the two daughters she had with her captor.
"I asked him, couldn't we just pull over and get it over with," she testified.
He had set up the mini-warehouse in Reno exactly as he wanted, and worked to ensure nobody would inquire about it.
Illuminating the bed were red, yellow and blue stage lights, with a stack of pornographic magazines and a projector alongside it.
As he drank wine and she smoked a small bit of hashish, Hall said she kept track of the time by listening to a radio, which regularly announced the time.
Despite his planning, there was one thing Garrido hadn't accounted for -- that one of his intended victims would fight back.
"She jumped out of the vehicle, struggling with him," prosecutors told the judge during a private conversation during the trial.
He said he responded to the urges by masturbating in drive-in movie theaters, restaurants, bathrooms, bars and while watching partially clothed or naked women in their homes.
On the night he took Hall captive and bound her with a leather strap in her car, he said he took four hits of LSD, a drug that he said he used daily for at least four years, sometimes taking up to 10 hits at a time.
Garrido said the urges would strike and continue to build until he was "overcome" with sexual cravings.
"He said that he didn't get off on pain," Hall recalled during her testimony.