An angry chorus of voices in social media, on the street, in newspapers and over the airwaves has decried the attack against 14-year-old Malala Yousufzai as cowardly and an example of a government unable to cope with militants.
On Tuesday, Taliban militants stopped a van carrying three girls, including Malala, on their way home from school in northwestern Pakistan's conservative Swat Valley.
"We are happy that she survived, but are worried too about her health condition," said her uncle, Faiz Muhammad, who is with her at a military hospital in Peshawar.
Meanwhile, the Taliban claimed responsibility for the attack and issued an ominous threat.
In fact, many of Malala's courageous words during that interview take on an even more defiant context.
Malala also encouraged other young people to take a stand against the Taliban -- and to not hide in their bedrooms.
"In attacking Malala, the terrorists have failed to grasp that she is not only an individual, but an icon of courage and hope," the general said.
"Malala is what Taliban will never be," said Murtaza Haider, the associate dean of research and graduate programs at the Ted Rogers School of Management at Toronto's Ryerson University, in an opinion piece in the Dawn newspaper.
This latest incident "makes them more unpopular" among masses of people who view the aspirations of Malala and the Taliban's resistance to them as a "fight between good and evil," said Chaudhary, a senior South Asia fellow at the New America Foundation.
Twitter, the closest thing to a barometer of public opinion, likewise lit up.
The valley, near the Afghanistan border and about 186 miles (300 kilometers) from the capital city of Islamabad, boasted the country's only ski resort.
She took a stand by writing about her daily battle with extremist militants who used fear and intimidation to force girls to stay at home.
The Taliban controlled Malala's valley for years until 2009, when the military cleared it in an operation that also evacuated thousands of families.
That was "a trigger event -- it pulled a lot of the political elite out of their denial," she said.
"There can be a million excuses why the Taliban can still operate with impunity in Pakistan, a lot of them legitimate.
CNN's Noreen Shams and Saeed Ahmed also contributed to this report.