More than half of the drugs on the shortage list are considered critical -- meaning they have no alternative.
Mosier was able to get her required surgery, but her doctor, Dr. Wendel Naumann, was unable to get Doxil, the chemotherapy treatment she needed.
Mosier was never able to get another dose of Doxil and spent the last month of her life in hospice care.
So we bought her the ticket, hoping it would give her something for her to look forward to, and she did, and it was just wonderful."
In a recent report, the panel claimed the FDA -- the very agency tasked with dealing with shortages -- is partly to blame for the shortage situation.
"The FDA has failed to ensure that enforcement and compliance activities are conducted in a manner that does not create unnecessary shortages of critical drugs," according to the House report.
On Monday, the FDA issued a letter to Rep. Elijah Cummings (D-Maryland) of the House Oversight Committee, responding to the committee's blaming the FDA for the shortages.
A May 2011 FDA inspection found a string of problems, including inadequate oversight and metallic particle shards in some of the drugs produced on site.
From their findings, the House Oversight Committee found that 58% of the drugs on the shortage list were produced at facilities cited by the FDA.
When we issue warning letters today, we ask companies to very specifically communicate with us how they plan to address the problem, so we can assess what the potential of a shortage is, " she told CNN.
We can assist companies that are having difficulties to finding alternatives for the difficulties they are having, and even in rare cases, we can seek sources of medications from other countries, where they might be being produced to our standards."
In February, the FDA stepped in and allowed the importation of Lipodox from an Indian manufacturer, a possible therapeutic alternative.
Just since January, at our count, we've prevented 94 to 100 shortages, things the public never sees," Kweder told Gupta.
I don't think these shortages are going to go away because of this bill."