Counter-protesters squared off with the demonstrators, and a shouting match erupted over the nation's immigration system, which recently has been overwhelmed with a tide of Central American minors illegally entering the United States alone or with other children.
Unlike undocumented Mexican migrants, who are often immediately deported, the U.S. government detains and processes the Central Americans, who are eventually released and given a month to report to immigration offices.
The children on the buses were apparently in the company of relatives or other adults, said an official with the National Border Patrol Council.
confronted the buses a day after the town posted a notice on its website: "Murrieta Opposes Illegal Immigrant Arrival."
"They're trying to leave a less desirable place and come to the greatest nation in the world.
What we're protesting is the product of a broken system that finally reached the doorstep of our community."
"It is deplorable that people espousing anti-immigrant hate language created unnecessary tension and fear for immigrant mothers and their children," Pedro Rios, a community representative of the San Diego Immigrant Rights Consortium, said in a statement.
At a Murrieta City Council meeting Tuesday night, Long seemed more conciliatory than his statement posted a day earlier on the city's website.
Federal agents were busing them to Murrieta for processing at the Border Patrol station when the standoff took place Tuesday, CNN affiliates reported.
But Zermeno contended that processing immigrants, rather than enforcing the borders, is only making the situation worse.
The furor in Murrieta illustrated the conflict between protecting the borders and ensuring the safety of detained immigrants and children.
But immigration rights advocate Enrique Morones likened the migration to a refugee crisis and suggested racial antipathy was motivating protesters.
The administration also will set aside $161.5 million this year for the Central American Regional Security Initiative (CARSI) programs in an effort to "help stem migration flows as well as address the root cause of the migration," the White House said.
The Obama administration has accused syndicates in Latin America of waging a deliberate campaign of misinformation about relocating to the United States that has caused people in poor Central American countries and Mexico to risk their lives to cross the U.S. border illegally.