(CNN)Germanwings co-pilot Andreas Lubitz was hiding an illness from his employers and had been declared "unfit to work" by a doctor, according to German authorities investigating what could have prompted the seemingly competent and stable pilot to steer his jetliner into a French mountain.
But the fact that investigators found "ripped, recent medical leave notes, including for the day of the offense, leads to the preliminary conclusion that the deceased kept his illness secret from his employer and his professional environment," prosecutors said.
Authorities left Lubitz's apartment  Friday night with boxes of papers and evidence folders after spending about 90 minutes inside.
What could have prompted Lubitz to deliberately destroy the aircraft, killing everyone on board, remained the focus of investigators in Germany.
Citing internal documents forwarded by Lufthansa to German authorities, Bild reported that Lubitz had suffered a "serious depressive episode" around the time he took a break from his pilot training in 2009, Reuters reported.
"Since they don't know the mountains, you need to provide them with equipment, you need to hold them with rope, give them crampons so they can work well and as precisely as possible, so that no evidence, no body part could escape their vigilance," Naffrechoux said.
As that difficult work continued, relatives and friends of the victims traveled on Lufthansa flights to an area near the site where their loved ones perished.
"Our focus in these darkest hours is to provide psychological assistance to the families and friends of the victims," said Thomas Winkelmann, a spokesman for the Germanwings executive board.
"While we are still mourning the victims, all our efforts focus on improving the safety and security of passengers and crews," the agency's director, Patrick Ky, said in a statement.
CNN's Catherine E. Shoichet, Greg Botelho, Claudia Rebaza, Frederik Pleitgen, Nic Robertson, Margot Haddad, Stephanie Halasz, Khushbu Shah, Bharati Naik, Ingrid Formanek, Sandrine Amiel, Rosie Tomkins, Will Ripley and Anna Maja Rappard contributed to this report.