(CNN)In Moscow on February 27, 2015, a lone gunman killed Boris Nemtsov, a former deputy prime minister and a powerful and charismatic opposition leader who stood as an alternative to Vladimir Putin.
Similarly today, Putin's actions in Ukraine and his refusal to share power with a modernizing elite has condemned Russia to another generation of economic backwardness and political isolation.
In the death of Nemtsov, irrespective of who is ultimately found responsible, we once again have the assassination of a person who could have become the leader of the country.
When the Kremlin publicly labels the opposition leaders as enemies, and spews out nothing but hatred toward those who have a right to demand freedom, then killings -- irrespective of who pulled the trigger -- are a logical result.
The population in Russia as a whole and in the large cities of Moscow and St. Petersburg in particular is not like the first-generation peasants of the Stalin era.
Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, and YouTube are all alive with information, commiserations, and expressions of extreme anger against the Kremlin.
The spokesman for the Investigative Committee, Vladimir Markin, cautioned the press not to jump to conclusions and then proceeded to put up a bewildering array of possible motives that included everything except Kremlin jealousy: He called the act a political provocation perhaps perpetrated by Islamic extremists angered over his stand on the Charlie Hebdo killing; or a "sacral sacrifice" by the opposition itself to destabilize the country; or related to his views on the Ukrainian war;  or a business conflict; or an assault related to his personal life.
And despite the fact that initial eyewitness reports stated that the killers were driving a white car without license plates, by noon the next day, RT was claiming that the car had been found, now with license plates from the Muslim republic of Ingushetia.
That would mean providing all forms of assistance to prevent the failure of Ukrainian democracy, a dream for which Nemtsov could well have died.