He worked as an assistant to film composer Stanley Myers in London where he learnt "how to wrestle an orchestra to the ground" while making the coffee.
Hans Zimmer: It's an industry that relies so heavily on the idea that I will wake up tomorrow morning with a great tune in my head.
For instance, on "Pirates 3," a lot of the music was written while Gore was shooting or before he went off shooting the movie.
Finally, I moved the whole studio to Disney's cutting rooms because being in the same space as the movie makes a difference and part of what I should do is try to inspire the production.
And why would I find it even remotely compelling to watch a story about a weird character like this and what's funny about it?
Suddenly I'm in this Roman encampment with these beautiful tents and in the background there are guys just killing each other with swords in the mud.
I started thinking about antiquity and about going to Rome and seeing these fantastic artifacts which enrich our life nowadays, and how it was really all built on the blood and sweat of slaves.
A director can be in control on pretty much everything: he can rewrite lines in the script; he can act a little for the actors; he can look into the camera and adjust all that.
With Ridley's "Black Hawk Down," I sent Mark Stridenfeld, who's now composing Ridley's new film, out into the desert to these villages to see what they play.
The wind on telegraph wires is a great sound; get it into your machine and play it and it becomes interesting.
You can't defend it and it's very simple: however it lands, this thing that you have slaved over, if it doesn't resonate; if it doesn't communicate, you gotta start again.
I finished "Pirates," had one day off and got into "The Simpsons" and it's a very different language.
Then they had to show it to Elton and I'm sitting next to him, pretty nervous -- and on the CD you get Elton's version and my version and you can see how radically different they are -- and the great thing about him is he's so secure in his artistry as a songwriter that he loved it.
HZ: With animated film you have to create the sonic world; there's nothing there.
HZ: When I first started working here I noticed there was the A-list and then no one else got to work, and the A-list was pretty small.
"The Graduate" must be the best use of songs ever in a movie; it adds a layer to the movie you wouldn't ever get from a score.
I can think of a handful: "Once upon a time in the West," Randy Newman's score for "Avalon," "Brazil," Michael Cayman's score; just using one song and creating a whole world out of it.
They have a point of view, they have a great tune attached to them and incredible craftsmanship.