China sent fighter jets into its newly claimed -- and hotly disputed -- air defense zone above the East China Sea on Thursday, the same day that Japan's military firmly insisted its own patrols over the area wouldn't stop because of Beijing's declaration.
The fighter jets conducted "routine air patrols ... aiming to strengthen monitoring on air targets in the zone and fulfill the air force's historic mission," Shen said in a statement posted on the Chinese defense ministry's website.
Japan isn't alone in disobeying China, which has warned military measures could be taken if planes entering the zone fail to identify themselves and submit flight planes to Chinese authorities.
China has grown more assertive beyond its recognized borders since Chinese President Xi Jinping took office about a year ago -- creating a delicate situation for Washington, which has  promised to focus more on Asia and uphold commitments to its allies in the region.
"I want to emphasize that the Chinese government has enough resolution and capability to safeguard the country's sovereignty and security," replied the spokesman, Qin Gang.
Tensions spiked after the Japanese government purchased some of the islands from a private owner in September 2012, angering Chinese authorities, who saw the move as an attempt by Japan to tighten control.
Adding to the complications and confusion surrounding the zone, Japan's two main commercial airlines said Wednesday that following a request from the Japanese government, they and other members of the Scheduled Airlines Association of Japan will not submit flight plans to Chinese authorities for flights through the zone claimed by Beijing.
Since it declared the new air defense zone over the weekend, China has been busy making its case for why it feels the move was justified.
It has pointed out that other countries already operate air defense identification zones in waters around their territory, noting that Japan has had a zone in place in the East China Sea since the 1960s.