"It's just surreal how quickly someone can go, and how much we take for granted everyday," said Danvers High School student Chris Weimert, describing Ritzer as "the nicest teacher you could ever have.
Authorities had been looking for the student, Philip Chism, first, after he was reported missing -- with police sending out messages via Twitter and Facebook on Tuesday evening, noting he'd been last seen around 6:30 p.m. and asking for the public's help in finding him.
Police in Topsfield, the town just north of Danvers, around 12:30 a.m. spotted Chism walking alongside a busy road there.
"Based on his statements and the corroborating evidence found at multiple scenes at ... Danvers High School and surrounding wooded area, the juvenile was subsequently placed into custody and booked for murder," adds the complaint.
Everything will reopen Thursday except the high school, but counselors and grief specialists will be available there for two hours during the day, said Superintendent Lisa Dana.
Just Monday, the Danvers Police Department was tweeting its support for families and first responders affected by the shooting death of a Sparks, Nevada, teacher -- allegedly at the hands of a 12-year-old boy.
Students said Chism played soccer there, describing him as somewhat quiet but still an active participant in class who had friends.
He described Chism as a good athlete who was shy at first but eventually warmed up to people, adding he hadn't been acting strangely lately.
"I'd say he's less 'polite and friendly' than you thought," wrote one Facebook commenter.
"She believed children have much to offer and often do not realize how special they are as individuals," the university said.
Like Dzerkacz, Ritzer's aunt Shirley Martellucci said her niece never had any trouble with students -- including during the past two years, when she was at Danvers High.
"It's just unbelievable that someone would take her life at such a young age."
"Everyone that knew and loved Colleen knew of her passion for teaching and how she mentored each and every one of her students," the family said in the statement.
CNN's Dana Garrett, Laurie Segall, Eden Pontz, Rob Frehse, Rose Arce, Chandler Friedman, Stephanie Gallman, Alexis Weiss and Bob Crowley, as well as journalist Alexandra Field, contributed to this report.