This is a huge moment for Julianne -- and a huge moment for all of us who have been trying to focus public attention on this staggering disease.
Alzheimer's still carries a stigma of the unknown -- even though today more than 5 million Americans have it.
Women in their 60s are about twice as likely to develop Alzheimer's as breast cancer.
The truth is, we're right in the middle of an epidemic, but we as a nation are in denial.
Back in 2010, when we published "The Shriver Report: A Woman's Nation Takes on Alzheimer's," we reported that women were more than half the individuals diagnosed with Alzheimer's and nearly two-thirds of the unpaid caregivers of those who had it.
So, in partnership with the Alzheimer's Association and so many inspiring women already working on the front lines to fight this disease, we have launched the Wipe Out Alzheimer's Challenge, a multipronged campaign powered by women's brains.
And why is it that women in their 60s are so much more likely to get Alzheimer's than breast cancer?
What can be done during the 20 or so years when the disease develops, before a woman even becomes symptomatic?
Yet, as the Alzheimer's Association tells us, "the costs to all payers for the care of people living with Alzheimer's disease and other dementias will total an estimated $226 billion, with Medicare and Medicaid paying 68 percent of the costs."
We're asking women to put together their own "brain trusts" in their communities -- groups that will go out and do some muscular fund-raising.
Local brain trust groups will also learn about the devastatingly high cost of Alzheimer's -- how neither Medicare nor the Affordable Care Act covers long-term care, and the cost of a semiprivate nursing home room averages more than $80,000 a year.
It's time for the narrative around Alzheimer's to change.
We used to think that the mysterious condition called Alzheimer's disease happened only to folks in their 80s and 90s.
The race for the Oscar may be over, but the race to wipe out Alzheimer's is on.