We dusted off our hands, satisfied with our ample labors, and just as we were about to sink into the deep cave of hibernation/suspended animation that we enter between columns, we received the following inquiry:
My friends make fun of me mercilessly, teasingly (I hope) calling me a creeper, and I've seen some sitcoms and movies lately that seem to indicate that Google stalking kills the mystery or whatever, but I'm just fascinated by people -- and the fact that our lives have become so public.
), assuming -- as we did in the last column with Creepy Crushing in Chicago -- that you are not, in fact, out of your mind, allow us to parse this out for you by way of the following examples.
You've just shaken hands with your new cubiclemate and you're settling into your computer chair when you're hit with the uncontrollable urge to enter her name into Google and hit "Search."
In the wild, wild west of fortune-cookie writing (and all other professions), it's advantageous to know as much as you can about the people you're working with.
No one is going to be creeped out that you looked at a repository of information that they themselves put online -- just do it at home (How will you feel if she walks by to invite you to lunch and sees you're six pages into her blog?
On the other hand, "I saw all those pics on Flickr where you're dressed as Lady Gaga, passed out on a couch.
You're chilling at your local tiki-themed watering hole when a tall drink of grenadine saunters up to you.
The next morning, after copious glasses of water and capsules of headache medicine, you get a text confirming the date you agreed to in your sugared-up state.
It's totally fine to do an initial Google on someone you just met (especially somewhere like a bar or online) simply to make sure that s/he is, in fact, who they say they are.
A recent study by the Pew Internet & American Life Project shows that 57% of adults have plunked their own names into search engines.
The FBI was thrilled with the turn of events: "Any publicity that gets the word out that our Rebecca Rubin is wanted on various charges is certainly beneficial," Beth Anne Steele, a spokeswoman for the FBI, told The New York Times, but the doll now carries the name of a wanted criminal.
Therefore, you should be aware of what comes up when someone enters your name into that magnifying glass-flanked box.
(If the above situation does happen to befall you, we suggest buying the domain associated with your name and setting up a website -- complete with clear photos of yourself -- that explicates your profession and hobbies.