Dzhokhar Tsarnaev has been able to communicate with investigators in a limited fashion from his hospital bed and told them that neither he nor his brother Tamerlan, now dead, had any contact with terrorist groups overseas.
The twin blasts just before the finish line of the April 15 race killed three people and wounded more than 260 and turned a chunk of downtown Boston into a crime scene, disrupting the normal routines of countless others.
"I've had a tough time," he said.
"For us and our business, it's really about how do we get back to Boston, how do we band together, how do we help those that were seriously injured that are going to have lifelong struggles," she said.
"The outpouring of love and support over the last week has been tremendous," Denise and Bill Richard said in the statement.
According to a source with direct knowledge of the investigation, Collier didn't even have time to activate his emergency alert before being shot four or five times in the chest and head as he sat in his patrol car on the MIT campus.
In an exclusive interview with CNN affiliate WMUR, a man identifying himself as the carjacking victim said he was worried for his life.
The man escaped when the brothers stopped to fill up the gas tank, running for his life as one of the brothers swore at him, WMUR reported.
He said the store notified the FBI after discovering that the marathon bombing suspect had bought explosives there.
"My assumption is they bought this, experimented with it and decided against it and moved on and found another source," Weimer said.
... And I looked back and forth a couple of times and my eyes went to the engine block and there was a body," he told the affiliate.
Multiple shots rang out from behind the house, Boston Police Superintendent William Evans said Tuesday.
"Clearly from everybody's vantage point, we could see whoever was in that boat was poking at that top," he said.
But Dzhokhar Tsarnaev conveyed to authorities that his brother believed Islam is under attack and its adherents must fight back, a U.S. government source said Monday.
And Tamerlan Tsarnaev's wife, Katherine Russell, issued a statement through her attorney's office saying she is "doing everything she can to assist with the investigation" and said she and her family are shocked and distraught.
"The reports of involvement by her husband and brother-in-law came as an absolute shock to them all," the statement said.
A spokesman for the chief medical examiner's office also said officials there have heard nothing about plans by the slain suspect's family to claim his body.