Four decades before anyone took an arrow to the knee in "Skyrim," adventurers were sitting down with paper and pencil to battle fantasy monsters and explore rich, new worlds in a different kind of role-playing game.
"In today's culture, D&D has found its place as a leader and influencer over storytellers across so many different mediums," said Nathan Stewart, brand director for D&D at Wizards of the Coast, the company publishing the game.
Jerry Holkins, co-founder for the webcomic, "Penny Arcade," said he started playing D&D with his young aunts and uncles, much to the chagrin of his mother.
By the early '80s, as the game grew in popularity with wargamers, then college and high school students, it drew the attention of some religious groups that claimed -- as they would with "Harry Potter" decades later -- that the game encouraged witchcraft and demon worship.
"So I went from having no friends and no social circle to an immediate social circle through 'Dungeons & Dragons,' " said Levine, who is best known as creator of the "Bioshock" series.
Beyond simple game mechanics, the game allowed players to understand how to tell a story or craft an adventure that kept people engaged and entertained.
"Once I started getting exposed to Gygax's world -- sitting there and thumbing through the pages of the 'Monster Manual' over and over again and the other manuals of Advanced D&D, I saw his whole vision.
Holkins played many of the games and felt the games leveraged the vast settings of the D&D's campaigns without tying themselves to its specific rules -- thereby leaning more on storytelling rather than combat.
And many who play games like "Diablo," "Dark Souls" and "World of Warcraft," often connected to teammates and opponents through headsets and computer chat channels, also gather together for the social experience that is an old-fashioned "D&D" session.
"Different groups are all playing the same game, theoretically, but in practice there's a lot of culture that isn't really portable from table to table and people approach it with their own style," he said.
From the original rules in 1974 to "Advanced Dungeons & Dragons" in 1981 up to "D&D 4th Edition" released in 2008, the idea has always been to give players a framework to create adventures the way they want to experience and enjoy them.
Two years and 170,000 playtesters later, those timeless ideals are implanted in the fifth and latest generation of rules which were announced by Wizards of the Coast on Monday.
"We're aiming to tell the story not only in the role-playing game, but in other venues so that people can experience it at a number of different levels to a number of different depths," Perkins said.
While rule changes have usually resulted in the gnashing of teeth and wailing of voices from some players, Perkins said there is flexibility built in to the new edition so players can play and enjoy whatever type of game they want, using as much or as little of the new system as they want.
"I'm going to have 'Theater of the Mind' elements, but I'm also going to have very strong visuals and there will be miniatures because I'm going to try to demonstrate without actually calling attention to it that you can present and play the D&D game in any one of a number of different ways and it is still Dungeons & Dragons."
"In reality, that's what the future of video gaming wants to be.