Short enough to comfortably fit into a social media status box, and shared in its entirety hundreds of times every day, according to recent data from Facebook.
His words are some of the most memorable in American history, forever stamping our collective minds with "four score and seven years ago," and "all men are created equal," and of course a "government of the people, by the people, for the people."
The modern trend is for leaders to "play the folksy card," Baron said, portraying themselves as ordinary Joes and Janes who are exactly like you in every way -- except for the fact that they are hoping to achieve a position of immense power.
Everett had been the main attraction, but Lincoln's speech started picking up steam afterward and seemed to "go viral" in the manner of its day.
One can only imagine the tweets that would have been written about such a speech in modern times.
We found that people in some states, like Delaware, were particularly fond of quoting the address and that different parts of the speech were more popular in some states than others.
This line is a bit of an inside remark shared with the audience, believed by most historians to be a reference to Psalm 90:10, which most people of the day would know is an allusion to the human lifespan.
"He's a little bit worried that the nation might die at about the average lifespan that a human would," Cornelius said.
This phrase can be interpreted as both an allusion to the principles of the Declaration of Independence and also as a not-so-subtle jab at the institution of slavery.
This part was the second-most-mentioned phrase in the entire speech, rivaling "four score and seven years ago" in popularity, despite the fact that it's not a particularly well-known part of the Gettysburg Address.
It speaks to a need for soldiers' deaths to mean something, if they must occur -- a timeless desire we echo today.
They felt so strongly about preserving the union and ending slavery that you should not let their efforts carry into the wind.
For some, it has become a point of political contention due to the presence of the words "under God."
It's such a beloved word grouping that numerous people have borrowed it, massaged it and restated it with a slightly different twist, like a game of telephone in an era without telephones.
The point of "people" is driven straight into your mind by its frequent mention.
Why do you think the Gettysburg Address endures today, and why do some lines seem to resonate more with different places and groups in the United States?