(CNN)James Holmes made his introduction to the world in a Colorado cinema filled with spectators watching a midnight showing of the new Batman movie, "The Dark Knight Rises," in June 2012.
Holmes says he was insane at the time of the shootings, and that is his legal defense and court plea: not guilty by reason of insanity.
Evidence "revealed thus far in the case supports the defense's position that Mr. Holmes suffers from a severe mental illness and was in the throes of a psychotic episode when he committed the acts that resulted in the tragic loss of life and injuries sustained by moviegoers on July 20, 2012," the public defenders wrote.
Just before the shooting, Holmes was a doctoral student in neuroscience, and he was studying how the brain works, with his schooling funded by a U.S. government grant.
When jury summonses were issued in January, each potential juror stood a 0.2% chance of being selected, District Attorney George Brauchler told the final jury this month.
Meanwhile, victims and their relatives are challenging all media outlets "to stop the gratuitous use of the name and likeness of mass killers, thereby depriving violent individuals the media celebrity and media spotlight they so crave," the No Notoriety group says.
Holmes attended college fairly close to home, in a neighboring area known as Southern California's "inland empire" because it's more than an hour's drive from the coast, in a warm, low-desert climate.
By 2011, he had enrolled as a doctoral student in the neuroscience program at the University of Colorado Anschutz Medical Campus in Aurora, the largest academic health center in the Rocky Mountain region.
Holmes was one of six pre-thesis Ph.D. students in the program who were awarded a neuroscience training grant from the National Institutes of Health.
Fenton was so concerned about Holmes' behavior that she mentioned it to her colleagues, saying he could be a danger to others, CNN affiliate KMGH-TV reported, citing sources with knowledge of the investigation.
"Fenton made initial phone calls about engaging the BETA team" in "the first 10 days" of June, but it "never came together" because in the period Fenton was having conversations with team members, Holmes began the process of dropping out of school, a source told KMGH.
Citing statements from the university, Holmes' attorneys have argued that his access was revoked because that's normal procedure when a student drops enrollment.
Nine minutes before Holmes went into the movie theater, he called a University of Colorado switchboard, public defender Brady has said in court.
According to The New York Times, Holmes sent a text message to a fellow graduate student, a woman, about two weeks before the shooting.
After the shooting, Holmes' family issued a brief statement: "Our hearts go out to those who were involved in this tragedy and to the families and friends of those involved," they said, without giving any information about their son.
In December, Holmes' parents, who will be attending the trial, issued another statement: They asked that their son's life be spared and that he be sent to an institution for mentally ill people for the rest of his life, if he's found not guilty by reason of insanity.