Reps. Renee Ellmers of North Carolina and Fred Upton of Michigan, both Republicans who were part of the conference committee negotiations, called it a tentative agreement, while a top House Democratic aide said Democratic leaders would discuss the proposal with their members on Wednesday morning.
However, some conservative House Republicans expressed concerns about the potential agreement and said they were unsure if they would support it.
Under the agreement that would cover the rest of 2012, the nearly $100 billion payroll tax cut would not be paid for -- a consequence of the parties' inability to compromise on either new taxes or offsetting spending cuts, said top congressional aides from both parties.
A top Republican aide said the tentative agreement would allow for states to conduct drug testing when the unemployment benefits applicant was seeking a job that required drug testing or lost a job due to a failed drug test.
"It is of vital importance that Congress not muck up the recovery that we're seeing under way," Carney said of the need for a broad agreement.
The payroll tax cut, unemployment benefits and enhanced "doc fix" payments are set to expire at the end of February under a short-term agreement reached by Congress in December.
The debate over whether and how to extend the tax cut has been a political loser so far for the Republicans, who had publicly questioned its value last year.
"Americans are benefiting from it, and to take it away at this juncture leaves them open to charges of raising taxes.
In announcing their shift on the payroll tax issue Monday, Boehner and two other top House GOP leaders said they wanted separate the matter from legislation dealing with unemployment benefits and the doc fix.
Schiller told CNN the idea of divorcing the payroll tax cut from an unemployment benefits extension and the doc fix was a "clever" idea on the part of the House GOP leadership.
Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nevada, and House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, D-California, on Tuesday urged Republicans to allow Congress to quickly complete its work on all three issues -- the payroll tax cut, unemployment insurance, and the doc fix.
Jordan's "view is anytime we're letting people keep more of their money, that's a good thing," said Brian Straessle, a spokesman for the Republican congressman.
House Republican leaders have been "trying to make the best of crummy situation," Ornstein told CNN.