Dana Jones, 26, used to drive from the south end of the city by the airport to a northern suburb at peak commuting times, right through the daily mess.
Despite the perils of a long commute, most people in the United States drive to work, according to the American Community Survey (PDF).
Try to distract yourself with your smartphone, and you can put yourself and other drivers in even more danger.
It's where kids hear their parents cursing out other drivers and expressing their disbelief about everyone else's poor skills on the road.
This venting may feel good in the moment, but it reinforces the emotions for the next driving trip, he says.
You may realize that your negative thoughts may not be proportional to the offenses you perceive from other drivers.
In one experiment, Strayer and colleagues ran a simulation where people drove under the assumption that they were late to a meeting, and there was a financial incentive to get there before other people.
"In the simulator studies we've done, they'll actually start driving by cars and flipping them off and honking at them," Strayer says.
A 2012 study in the American Journal of Preventive Medicine found that the farther people commute by vehicle, the higher their blood pressure and body mass index is likely to be.
"Maybe it is better off to say, 'I'm going to put the radio on a station that's nice, and kind of chill out for the 30 or 40 minutes, rather than aggressively try to get home and beat everyone else,'" Strayer says.
A 2008 study from his group, published in the Journal of Experimental Psychology: Applied, found that people made more errors driving while talking on a cell phone than while chatting with another passenger.
About one in three fatalities on the road can be linked to some kind of distraction; some estimates put this figure even higher, Strayer says.
Reimer is working with Toyota's Collaborative Safety Research Center to study the visual and nonvisual demands of your attention while driving.
"It was something that was taking an enormous toll on my overall happiness, on my ability to deal with stress, on the amount of free time that I had," says Micah Puett, who used to live in Atlanta and worked for Turner Broadcasting in the 1990s.
It wasn't until Puett moved to Denver and found himself in a similarly perilous commuting situation that he realized how much the driving was affecting him.
Ramona Patrick is the principal of an elementary school and drives 55 miles through Los Angeles to get to work Monday through Friday.
She'll leave later in the evening to avoid traffic, but "your life is either on the road or at work."
I'm really good at knowing what's going to make me happy for two hours."