Ronnie Montrose gave me my first break as a songwriter, as a front man, as a recording artist and as a touring artist, and for that I will always be grateful.
I had no experience whatsoever; I just wrote the first four songs in my life, which were "Bad Motor Scooter," "Make It Last," "One Thing on My Mind," and "I Don't Want It," played them for Ronnie upon first meeting, shook my hand, and said, "Let's start a band."
It broke my band up, seeing Ronnie for the first time.
I was talking to a guy a couple of days after the show, and he said, "That's Ronnie Montrose, and that was his last show.
He gave it to me, and I went and knocked on his door, dressed like David Bowie -- big old high heel platform shoes, satin pants, probably had make-up on, with a Les Paul and a notebook pad with all kinds of lyrics in it.
Within a month we were signed to Warner Bros. Records, Ted Templeman producing, and the first Montrose album was born a month after that.
We made one of the greatest hard rock/heavy metal albums of all time with that first Montrose album, and then he didn't want to do that anymore.
What I learned from Ronnie Montrose, I still utilize today when I step on a stage.
He came to my dressing room, and said, "I'm a Montrose freak, I love the band!"
He said on the first Van Halen record, he took the first Montrose record in there and said, "Boom.
Eddie had a totally new twist on the whole guitar style thing, but as far as the chording goes -- not his soloing as much as the chording -- yeah, he took some of that big open chord thing [from Montrose].
We were talking a lot, because we were planning a Montrose reunion for my birthday in Cabo this year.
I was going to try to [cover] my whole four decades for the fans that night, without nobody knowing.
It's f***ed up that those songs will never be played by those four members again.
But if you're going to remember him for anything, put on that first Montrose record.
The only positive I can grab onto is the fact that the music will live on.