Those are the startling numbers that indicate the scale of the devastation from the huge earthquake that struck the Himalayan nation on Saturday.
As the country coped with the fallout of the quake, another natural disaster struck Tuesday afternoon in a popular trekking area north of Kathmandu, and up to 200 people were feared missing as a result of a landslide, a trekking association official said.
Quake relief efforts continued Tuesday, but officials warned that they were hampered by problems of getting aid into the country and then delivering it to some of the remote communities in desperate need.
Large encampments of tents have sprung up in open areas, including a wide space belonging to the military in the center of the city that is typically used for parades.
He is camping out at the military grounds with thousands of others even though frequent rain has made the nights an ordeal.
More bad weather is forecast for the region in the coming days.
"Remember we are not an outside force that has been parachuted into an area to help," he said.
Despite the fact that soldiers have their families and houses are down, we are trying to build morale, maintain morale and help themselves."
Most of the casualty numbers in Nepal are believed to have come mainly from Kathmandu and the surrounding area.
The government's first priority is to continue search and rescue operations and relief efforts, he said, as he thanked all those involved.
More than 15 countries and agencies have already promised help, Koirala said, as he appealed for other nations also to come to Nepal's aid.
Jamie McGoldrick, the U.N. resident coordinator for Nepal, told a news conference Tuesday that bringing in relief materials has been difficult because Kathmandu's international airport, which has just one runway and space for only a limited number of aircraft to park, is log jammed.
"I count on the generosity of the international community in Nepal's hour of need and the longer term rebuilding efforts that will be needed."
Even though aid groups and Nepalese officials are aware of critical situations in areas spread across Nepal's mountainous terrain, they face daunting challenges getting help to them.
He said injured people who had been airlifted from some remote areas were often suffering from crush injuries, lacerations and dislocations.
Damage to climbing infrastructure on the mountain, not to mention the overall situation in Nepal, means the climbing season is over for the year, climber Jim Davidson told CNN from the Everest base camp, where he was evacuated after spending two days on the mountain.
CNN's Elizabeth Joseph, Pamela Boykoff, Manesh Shrestha, Sumnima Udas, Kristie Lu Stout, Anjali Tsui, Kunal Sehgal and Ingrid Formanek also contributed to this report.