Mike Pence, you are surprised at the backlash and maintain that it is basically a copy of a law that is already in the books at the federal level and 19 other states.
Schumer mocks Indiana's contention that the state law is simply a mirror of the 22-year-old federal law.
Also, the law was envisioned to protect the religious freedoms of individuals, while the Indiana law also protects private companies, Schumer said.
The uproar is over that fact that the Indiana law expands the reach of the religious protections to include private companies and cases where the government is not involved.
The photography studio lost the case because the court ruled that it could not use the religious freedom law because the dispute was between two private parties and not a government entity.
"In our expert opinion, the clear evidence ... unmistakably demonstrates that the broad language of the proposed state RFRA will more likely create confusion, conflict, and a wave of litigation that will threaten the clarity of religious liberty rights in Indiana while undermining the state's ability to enforce other compelling interests," the letter, whose signatories included many Indiana law professors, stated.
These concerns are based on speculation of what might happen, said Josh Blackman, a constitutional law professor at South Texas College of Law.
Much is being made of the fact that the first religious freedom law was signed by President Bill Clinton more than 20  years ago.
The law came into being after two Native Americans in Oregon were fired from their jobs at a rehab clinic because they had consumed peyote, the hallucinogenic cactus.
Over the years, the law helped a number of people -- a Muslim prisoner won the right to grow a short beard, a Santeria priest was allowed to sacrifice a goat on special religious occasions, and a Native American boy received an exception to his school's policy banning long hair on boys.
But Holbrook says it is no coincidence that the religious freedom laws became popular at the state level just as the gay rights and marriage equality movement made historic steps.
Blackman said the history of the state religious freedom laws shows that they have not turned into conduits for discrimination.
Four U.S. circuit courts of appeals have ruled that the federal law can be used as a defense in cases involving private parties.
Hobby Lobby, citing the federal religious freedom law, argued that it should not have to provide contraception coverage through insurance to its employees via Obamacare because it was against the owners' beliefs.
Even before the controversial Indiana law was passed, if a restaurant denied service to a gay couple, the couple might be able to sue, but not for discrimination.
According to the Human Rights Campaign, lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people are sometimes fired, denied a promotion or harassed in the workplace.
Or, at the very least, an exception written into the religious freedom bill that protects from such discrimination.