That's largely thanks to policies crafted out of Washington, be they intended to contain or eliminate Hussein or to stabilize and build up the fragile nation that remained in his wake.
Their job is to protect the U.S. Embassy and other American interests, the Pentagon said.
The responsibility that comes with rebuilding a country from over 6,000 miles away was one factor, but so was the continued violence.
Among them was Sen. John McCain, who last week reiterated his disgust at that decision and called for the firing of Obama's national security team in part over what's happened in Iraq.
"We are not contemplating ground troops," White House Press Secretary Jay Carney said last week.
Still, while the U.S. military might not have a role fighting on the ground in Iraq, it could have a role over it.
Yet, a U.S. official said the Iraqi government had indicated a willingness for the U.S. military to conduct airstrikes targeting members of the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria (ISIS) and other militants.
Attacking sites from the air comes with a host of limitations and challenges -- the risk of U.S. casualties or capture should warplanes be shot down; the unlikelihood of wiping out an insurgency from above; the likelihood militants will blend into the civilian population and cause death and injury to the innocent.
Unlike the first two options, the U.S. government has already taken this course and has signaled it may do more.
At the same time, it's not like the billions of dollars worth of firepower proved all that effective against ISIS fighters in places like Mosul, Iraq's second-largest city.
Already, militants have been able to pick up weaponry, vehicles and other goods on its swift, vast sweep of Iraq -- some of it supplied by the United States.
One silver lining to the turmoil is Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki's government seems to be coordinating with the semiautonomous Kurdish government, American officials said.
"That accounts in part for some of the weakness of the state, and that carries over into the military."
"There's more that Prime Minister Maliki should have done, could have done, over the course of time," said State Department spokeswoman Jen Psaki.
We need to work together and present a united front."