"The international community has a responsibility to ensure that chemical weapons never re-emerge as an instrument of warfare," he said.
The team did identify two types or rockets it said were used to deliver the gas and their trajectories, and international observers have said those weapons are not known to be in the hands of rebels battling the government of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad.
And Samantha Power, the U.S. ambassador, said a preliminary review of the report points toward forces loyal to al-Assad.
Syria has since agreed to join the 1993 Chemical Weapons Convention and hand over its chemical arsenal to international inspectors, with the United States and Russia laying out a fast-paced framework for Damascus to follow.
"Survivors reported that following an attack with shelling, they quickly experienced a range of symptoms, including shortness of breath, disorientation, eye irritation, blurred vision, nausea, vomiting and general weakness," Ban said.
The secretary-general said the team "adhered to the most stringent protocols available for such an investigation, including to ensure the chain of custody for all samples."
It was not immediately clear how the report would affect events on the ground.
Also Monday, Turkish fighter jets downed a Syrian helicopter near the border between the two countries Monday, Turkey's semiofficial Anatolia News Agency reported, citing Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Arinc.
The framework they laid out calls for a U.N. resolution demanding that Syria's chemical weapons be placed under international control.
Lavrov said the deal does not say the U.N. resolution will be under Chapter VII of the U.N. charter, which potentially authorizes the use of force -- and comments by U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry that the any resolution will need to include the possibility of force "show unwillingness to read the document" that Russia and the United States endorsed.
International inspectors must be on the ground in the country by November, and all production equipment must be destroyed by the end of November.
But the process of securing and destroying Syria's cache of chemical weapons -- in the middle of a civil war -- may be a logistical nightmare.