Though the pundits have pored over all of his liabilities, most importantly the damage that his older brother inflicted on the family name, Jeb Bush brings a lot to the table for 2016.
The most important asset Jeb Bush offers is that he is a known commodity, someone who is greatly respected in Republican circles.
Republicans have watched many of their candidates crash and burn in recent primaries, so they are eager to find someone who make it through to the finish line for the nomination and present a strong case in the general election.
He has a rather conservative record on tax cuts and gun rights, one that would be quite appealing to the right.
And even if there are still questions about his conservative credentials in the age of the Tea Party, the power of the right in the Republican primaries has not really proven to be debilitating to candidates who are trying to build a broad coalition.
Most Republican activists are thirsty for a candidate who can win rather than one who would be 100% pure on ideological issues.
In 2014, tea party candidates fared very poorly when confronted with Republicans who had the backing of big money conservatives eager to support candidates who could win and avoid those whose devastating sound bites would energize Democrats.
"He's got proven executive experience," said GOP bundler Fred Malek, the finance chairman of the Republican Governors Association that Chris Christie currently heads.
While his conservative record will be sufficient to counteract Tea Party frustration, Bush will be able to sell himself as part of a Republican cohort that is seeking to bring new people into the Republican fold and who is sensitive to the ways in which social and cultural issues have changed where the party stands on these issues.
Like most Republicans, he will face Democrats pointing to the evidence of economic recovery under President Obama, and he has close tied to the business, anti-tax establishment faction of the GOP that hurt Mitt Romney in 2012.
Continued problems with foreign policy and the economy, as well as the extension of much of the homeland security program under President Obama, has undercut some of the claims that Bush was wholly to blame for the problems that bothered Americans.
If he puts his full heart into this race, and it still remains unclear thus far that he will, Hillary Clinton and other Republican contenders should be worried that the 2016 election could be another year for the Bush family.