It's been an R-rated story, to say the least, with an abundance of testimony about grisly violence and, from Arias, details about a kinky sex life she says she shared with Alexander.
After he graduated from high school he went on a two-year mission in Denver.
That November, he baptized Arias into the Mormon faith, a ceremony Arias said was followed by anal sex.
Still, he and Arias continued to hang out on several occasions until -- disenchanted Arias says -- she moved back to Northern California.
Deputy Maricopa County Attorney Juan Martinez has accused Arias of playing the victim when, in fact, he alleges she staged the crime scene to make it look like self-defense and has actively sought to profit from the media attention.
Finally, according to Martinez's closing argument, after she killed Alexander, she hooked up with an out-of-state romantic interest so she would have an alibi.
Arguing the prosecution's position that Arias was obsessed with Alexander and stalking him, another defense attorney, Kirk Nurmi, has said it didn't add up because Arias was active on a Mormon dating site.
Nurmi also questioned the merit of the prosecution's gas can argument, saying Arias could have avoided a paper trail simply by paying with cash.
"If Jodi Arias were accused of the crime of lying, I could not stand before you and say she's not guilty of that crime, but nowhere in your jury instructions are you asked to convict Jodi Arias of lying," Nurmi said.
HLN has created a show, "After Dark: The Jodi Arias Trial," which invites an in-studio and at-home audience to grade the day's arguments.
HLN has enjoyed a ratings boost since the trial began, and people drive hours to see the trial for themselves.
"I just hope justice is served and that at least we get our $1.6 million worth with a conviction," McFarlane told KPHO, referring to the ever-increasing taxpayer expense on the trial.
The prosecution, naturally, would like to see a first-degree murder conviction, as its case has revolved around Arias premeditating the killing.
Lastly, the jury could find her not guilty or determine that she acted in self-defense and that her actions were reasonable.
Either way, she'd then be free to pursue her dream of becoming a professional photographer, and the media circus could move to another town.