The career jurist nominated by President Obama would be the first Hispanic justice -- and only the third woman justice -- in the history of the nation's highest court.
Bush -- then Bill Clinton -- [and has] more judicial experience than anyone sitting on the court had at the time they were nominated."
"I believe that Judge Sotomayor will be in the mold of Justice Souter, who understands the real-world impact of the court's decisions, rather than the mold of the conservative activists who second-guess Congress, and who through judicial extremism undercut laws meant to protect Americans from discrimination in their jobs, their access to health care and education, and their privacy from an overreaching government," Leahy's statement said.
"Accordingly, we trust they will ensure there is adequate time to prepare for this nomination, and a full and fair opportunity to question the nominee and debate her qualifications."
"I've spoken to a bunch of conservatives today who intend to use this YouTube clip, intend to use lots of clips from speeches she's given talking about how they believe that she will be an activist judge who will legislate from the bench," Borger said.
"And so it's kind of interesting because in a way, I think they intend to use more of her speeches and her appearances than lots of her court decisions."
Republicans also must be careful about whether unfair scrutiny or personal attacks could backfire, Republican National Committee chairman Michael Steele told CNN when asked about possibly harming his party's Hispanic outreach by opposing Sotomayor.
"Any unnecessary delay will only keep the court from getting ready for a new term and inhibit the Senate's ability to focus on other important priorities like the economy, energy and health care," Feinstein said.
To complete the confirmation process by August, the Senate would have to act in 66 days.
In the New Haven case, a three-judge appellate panel that included Sotomayor upheld a lower court ruling that supported the decision of New Haven officials to throw out results of promotional exams that they said left too few minorities qualified.