The summer sun of New York radiates from the towering metal of his monumental works.
"Intersection II" is more than 13 feet tall and 51 feet long.
Made to be entered, explored, felt in terms of how they divide and define space around you, these gentle, giant landmarks of a 40-year career place Serra today at the very heart of the Museum of Modern Art's mission and capabilities.
This engaging, articulate man knows how to bend and balance the plates so gorgeously hunkered down in a place usually ruled by far smaller works of Picasso, Giacometti, Rodin, Alexander Calder and Henry Moore.
Until then, MoMA's new exhibition, "Richard Serra Sculpture: Forty Years," reveals that sense of humor along with the sophisticated spatial concepts the Californian explains as he leads you, glad for your interest, across a terrain all his.
"The subject matter" of this work, he tells you, "is your personal experience of walking into and through and around.
This was all done with the express idea of putting capacious new Serra works on view.
So the retrospective not only brings into major focus the place of this key U.S. figure in the world's conversation on modern art, but it also makes good on what MoMA Director Glenn Lowry likes to call presenting art "full-force."
Some report the sensation of a tilting floor as they walk through the warm-sienna walls of "Sequence."
The walls of "Band" form canyons and cul-de-sacs that seem much too simple to create the disorientation they do in a viewer.
In the 1960s, Serra formed Low Rate Movers, a furniture-moving outfit in Lower Manhattan, along with composers Philip Glass and Steve Reich, artist Chuck Close, the late actor Spalding Gray and independent filmmaker Michael Snow.
"After a while, though," he says, "we stopped moving pianos and refrigerators.
"There was a need for me to get back to the process in relation to dealing with matter," says Serra, who is very clear on the point that his work is not Minimalist.
But in an exhibition that runs from a loop of neon tubing to those tidal swirls of steel bent in service to careful, creative calculations, the surprise may be the awe that finally seems to grip even the most reluctant viewer.
"It seems very weightless," Serra says, recalling the three weeks it took just to get the sculptures assembled on this vast plain that gathers in, at last, so many years of search, discovery and risk-taking.
He moves from work to work, consciously tracking himself in these pieces, intrigued, especially, when he can't fully grasp a work's effects on him.
Serra values "anything that engages people in relation to a work," he stresses.