Senate Democrats are wrapping up their tenure in the majority by reigniting debate on some of the former President's most controversial policies with a long-delayed report on the use of torture - "enhanced interrogation techniques" - by the U.S. government.
But they are also trying to walk a fine line, by sticking to claims that valuable intelligence on al Qaeda and in the hunt for Osama bin Laden emerged from the harsh interrogations of detainees.
I knew the directors, the deputy directors, I knew a lot of the operators.
Officials briefed on the report say it will provide ugly new details on the CIA program, including specifics on detainee deaths and a portrayal of a haphazardly assembled and poorly managed program.
Its findings likely will end up being seen through the prism of the deeply-partisan divide over the Bush-era counter-terrorism tactics and whether they actually produced intelligence to keep the nation safe.
But only the 480-page executive summary is being released, following months of negotiations between the Senate and the White House over redactions.
That omission appears to lay blame for the program's excesses solely on the CIA, when top Bush officials ordered the agency to come up with the detention and interrogation program.
Sen. Dianne Feinstein, who chairs the Senate Intelligence Committee and is usually a defender of the CIA, has unleashed stinging criticism of the agency after what she said was a series of cover-ups including the destruction of interrogation tapes.
In a phone call Friday , Secretary of State John Kerry asked Feinstein to consider the broader implications of the timing of the report's release, said State Department spokeswoman Jen Psaki.
"We have to get this report out," Feinstein told the Los Angeles Times in an interview Sunday.
Some officials say that because of the way intelligence is gathered, it's impossible to determine whether strands of intelligence, used to keep tabs on al Qaeda terrorists, came from the now-banned interrogations.
"We tortured some folks," the president said in August, adding that there was a need to recall the context of the era, including the fear of follow-up attacks.
"In the immediate aftermath of 9/11, we did some things that were wrong — we did a whole lot of things that were right, but we did some things that were contrary to our values...