(CNN) -- We are in the middle of a fight to preserve the dignity and grace that makes all of us Americans.
And in the middle of that tough moment, the decency of people shone through in e-mails, phone calls and in person.
But for some reason, this principle has been lost on the 217 members of the House of Representatives who decided to lace up some combat boots with rough, crushing soles to kick and kick again the 48 million Americans who count on food stamps.
Let's take a walk through the facts of what's happened to them during the Great Recession and this nonrecovery of the economy.
"The Fed (Federal Reserve) found that middle-class families had sustained the largest percentage losses in both wealth and income during the crisis, limiting their ability and willingness to spend," according to The New York Times.
In 2009, only half of the country had any assets, and those numbers have gotten worse during the last three years.
For the unemployed and the millions who have been looking for work for six months or more, the struggle is many times harder and uglier.
She's quietly going to the food pantry, checking the sales in the grocery store, spending some time at the kitchen table clipping coupons and making a serious plan to turn that box of pasta, pound of beef, and if she's lucky, some fresh fruits and vegetables, into a meal plan truly worthy of a Gucci belt.
But today, the food stamp program has an error rate of only 3% -- and those errors were mostly committed by the government in underpayments as well as overpayments and payments to ineligible families.
And those few bad apples who do commit fraud are no excuse to kick the unemployed and the poor when they are engaged in a mighty battle to get themselves and their families back on their feet.
Speaking of representatives who would vote to take food from America's tables, she said, "Some of these same members travel to foreign countries under the guise of official business.
And The Des Moines Register reported that Rep. Steve King, R-Iowa, received $3,588 in taxpayer funds for both food and lodging during a six-day trip to Russia.
They went after the poor, the unemployed, the single mom, the single dad, the grandparents -- all those people who are trying to make it work.
We're lacing up our shoes, too, but we're going to fight these merciless cuts with the golden rule.
The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Donna Brazile.