A lot has changed in the publishing industry, not to mention in the authors' personal lives, between the bookends of their careers thus far.
The two former nannies recently became mothers: McLaughlin's son, Theo, and Kraus's daughter, Sophie, are both 2 years old.
We no longer have those sweet spot, post-sugar crash, 5 to 8 p.m. hours to make up whatever we haven't gotten done during the day.
And sometimes we get back to work after our kids go to bed, but we're usually really brain-fried by then, in a way that we didn't used to be.
The upside of that for our writing creatively is that you're in a constant state of thinking about the novel.
I can't imagine what it would have been like if it had been one of us years apart from the other.
Just on an individual level, regardless of the work, on a personal level, it's priceless to have that support from somebody who gets it.
Has motherhood helped you to write something that you wouldn't have been able to before?
Specifically, we talked a lot about "The Nanny Diaries" in the last couple of years because when we were nannies, we couldn't really understand why so much derision and scorn was thrown the way of not just us, but our colleagues.
Kraus: Speaking for myself, I was counting the days until my daughter was old enough to start daycare.
And I try to make those hours with her as fun as possible because I've had a good day.
McLaughlin: I agree to all of that and I think, additionally, it was interesting for me to discover the moments I've had of: 'I should just be doing this; I should just be parenting' have not come ever from not wanting to be working or a lack of passion to be working.
It fulfills me so much that I am able to be so much more present with my son.
CNN: You're collaborating with Teen Vogue and Estée Lauder on "breakup to beautiful" makeovers at Nordstrom stores.
I think we've been doing a lot of thinking about how we can continue to be out there when we've lost so much marketing via foot traffic of brick and mortar stores, and the consolidation of retailers.
McLaughlin and Kraus are signing copies of "Over You" at Estée Lauder counters in various Nordstrom stores through December 1.