The guy driving us around the opulent Boca Raton Resort and Club in his hotel-issued golf cart was non-plussed by the abundant wealth on display in the driveways and parking lots around the property.
But there was even more money here this week: The resort was playing host to the the Republican Governors Association's annual meeting, always a magnet for major GOP donors, corporate fixers and political consultants looking to get some some face time, and maybe a contract or two, with the 31 Republican governors and governors-elect who now control state houses around the country.
They were all more than happy to soak up attention from admirers and make nice with potential contributors.
"If you are an individual who is running for office, this is a good place to be to meet people who have a lot really good ideas about how to to do public policy, and meet men and women who want to see good government put into place," Perry said.
When their donors are involved, the RGA likes to roll out the red carpet, holding their conferences at high-end resorts like this one: Past RGA meetings were held in Scottsdale, Aspen and Austin.
The event attracted the usual pack of political press — including the "Hambycast" crew — eager to flee the freezing temperatures of Washington and meet sources, interview new governors and get an early bead on the Republican presidential race, which doesn't seem like it will start as soon as reporters would like it to.
Did you know that states are the laboratories of democracy?
"Christie did a fantastic job," said Larry Hogan, the newly-elected Republican governor of blue Maryland and maybe the biggest surprise winner of 2014.
Hogan was like the star rookie at an NFL training camp, the subject of gentle ribbing from his more seasoned colleagues but also the buzziest newcomer in Boca.
After Christie became convinced that Hogan could pull off a sleeper upset, he asked his fellow RGA leaders to make an investment in Maryland, even going into debt to do so.
He let slip a fact that no Marylander should ever reveal: He's never watched "The Wire."