Earlier, county spokesman Dave Rose told CNN that the Black Forest Fire, burning northeast of the city, now appears to be the most destructive in terms of property lost in state history.
"The fire is very, very active within the containment area, and we don't have a high level of confidence at all that we'll be able to hold all of these lines around this fire," Rose said.
After he spoke, residents of about 1,000 homes in Colorado Springs were told to evacuate.
Among those who lost their home were husband and wife, Jaenette and Kristian Coyne.
"It was probably the worst thing I've ever seen in my life.
A county fairground northeast of the Black Forest Fire looked like a Noah's Ark with families who fled with their animals to escape the looming inferno.
At least eight families also have taken refuge at the Elbert County Fairgrounds in Kiowa, the Denver Post reported, which is about 35 miles southeast of Denver.
A friend called her to say that her home was on an online list of residences that had been designated as destroyed.
For a person who had just been told their home was gone, Warren had a cheerful attitude when talking with CNN, laughing and saying that she was just going to go back home when she could, hitch up a trailer on the property, live in that and rebuild her house.
He sent images of it burned to the ground, showing charred remains.
So many people have suffered loss, and so we're just thankful that we're here and safe and that we're loved, and that we have so many people that are willing to help take care of us," she said.
Rose, the El Paso County spokesman, stressed later that those figures were preliminary, and said he would expect them to increase.
The inferno is likely to continue for a couple more days as temperatures are forecast to stay in the 90s through Friday, with winds gusting up to 30 mph.
Another major fire in the state is the Royal Gorge Fire, which is burning 55 miles to the southwest, on the other side of Colorado Springs.
The famous Royal Gorge Bridge that spans the Arkansas River is intact but needs to be inspected before it can reopen for tourists, a spokeswoman for the Royal Gorge Bridge and Park said.
There were other fires in the state as well, including in Grand and Huerfano counties.
CNN's Dan Simon, Greg Botelho, Shawn Nottingham and Dave Alsup contributed to this report.