Trying to figure out how the United States and its European allies will respond to Russia's Crimea incursion gets confusing.
At the same time, the Obama administration can't rule out any option as it pushes for direct negotiations between Russia and Ukraine aimed at de-escalating the current crisis and laying the groundwork for peaceful coexistence going forward.
While no obligation exists for NATO to militarily defend Ukraine against Russian aggression, the United States and Britain -- along with Russia -- committed to protecting Ukrainian independence and territorial integrity in 1994 when Kiev gave up its nuclear arsenal that dated back to the Soviet era.
His implication was clear: failure to effectively respond to Russia's aggression in Crimea would embolden North Korea and Iran to further resist Western efforts to prevent them from developing nuclear weapons.
"This action by Russia cannot go unchallenged," Republican Rep. Ed Royce of California, the chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, said Thursday at a hearing where the panel approved a non-binding resolution backing sanctions.
British energy firm BP is the second-largest shareholder in Russia's leading oil producer Rosneft, and some of the biggest energy companies in Germany, the Netherlands and France are invested in a joint venture with Russian gas giant Gazprom.
United States -- Kerry announced $1 billion in loan guarantees for Ukraine this week as part of the Obama administration's effort to publicly support the interim government and provide incentive for Ukraine to continue to align itself with the West through the European Union instead of Russia.
European aid is the easiest way to show immediate support for Ukraine while avoiding risks of counter-sanctions and other retaliation.
The foundation of the U.S. stance is for Ukraine to maintain its independence and territorial integrity, while also recognizing Russia's historical and economic ties to Ukraine.
CNNMoney's Mark Thompson, Alanna Petroff and Charles Riley and CNN's Deirdre Walsh contributed to this report.