He wrote reviews, columns, interviews and articles, an astonishing collection of work that spanned more than four decades with the Chicago Sun-Times, freelance contributions for magazines such as Esquire, CD-ROMs (Ebert's movie guide was one of the sources for the popular Cinemania) and rogerebert.com.
(Chicago, then and now, was full of such cheerily blunt personalities: Mike Royko, Irv Kupcinet, Studs Terkel -- perhaps to be expected in the birthplace of "The Front Page.")
He understood movies were these complex machines of directors and actors and special effects guys and studio suits holding bags of money, machines that -- when they worked -- were magical, like dreams.
He titled one of his books "I Hated, Hated, Hated, Hated This Movie" (a line from his review of "North," a Rob Reiner misfire) and another "Your Movie Sucks" (the closing phrase to an open letter he wrote actor Rob Schneider).
He and Siskel panned the 1987 Christopher Reeve movie "Street Smart," but both highlighted the performance of a then-little known actor named Morgan Freeman, who played a pimp.
And, through their TV show, the two approached film criticism the way movie fans, freshly released from a weekend showing at the cineplex, might talk about what they just saw.
"Professionally speaking, their daily aim was to bludgeon each other via newsprint, their medium/blunt object of choice," wrote Josh Schollmeyer in his wonderful Siskel-and-Ebert oral history, "Enemies, A Love Story."
And as "Opening" turned into "Sneak Previews" turned into "At the Movies" turned into "Siskel & Ebert and the Movies," the two became equal parts knockabout vaudeville team -- frequently guesting on Johnny Carson and David Letterman's late-night shows, where their debates were very obviously unscripted -- and influential movie critics, willing to showcase all variety of new releases in a pre-Internet age when middle America wasn't besieged by all manner of movie minutiae and clips weren't a click away.
Siskel died in 1999, but reading Ebert's 2011 memoir, "Life Itself," you'd think he was still around to needle his fellow critic.
"We don't sit down every Saturday night at 6:30 p.m. and wait for a show to come on television," television executive Mary Kellogg said in "Enemies."
Some of his readers believed he'd gone soft; just in the last few months, he gave at least three (out of four) stars to such panned films as "Taken 2" (21 percent on Rotten Tomatoes) and "Stand Up Guys" (36 percent).
These days, when pop culture runs through the very capillaries of the Internet, it's easy to knock film critics.
"However you came to know me, I'm glad you did and thank you for being the best readers any film critic could ask for," he wrote in his last column, "A Leave of Presence," published Tuesday.
I'll see you at the movies."