After that first week, though, the veteran international journalist said it became evident this wasn't your typical jet crash.
Below, Clancy reflects on the story and what makes it so unique and baffling -- one that might take years to unravel.
We knew because there were so many people on board and so many different nationalities, that it would be a major story.
CLANCY: While this was not Malaysia's first air tragedy, it was an unprecedented situation where a plane had gone missing -- not because something happened that forced it down, but because it abandoned its flight course and we don't know why.
The problem was that Malaysian authorities didn't have any idea what the answer was to these questions.
So the combination of multiple voices with no answers undermined any trust that the families had.
They included accusations that the Malaysians may have shot down the plane and they are covering it all up, that there was a hijacking and the Malaysian government was negotiating with them and they weren't telling the families.
(They fueled the idea) that somehow the Malaysian government was directly responsible for the fate of their relatives and was trying to deceive them.
That's why they brought in a PR firm and reorganized themselves to help get a single message out and to try to dispel the rumors that they were trying to cover something up.
They didn't have any of the capabilities or any of the assets to find this plane.
CLANCY: This story has captured the world's attention because no one can believe that a sophisticated airliner like the Boeing 777 with 239 people on board can simply vanish into thin air.
CLANCY: I've never covered a story like this one that had so few facts and so much speculation in so many different directions.
When I began to see it unfolding, I was more determined than ever to avoid speculation and conjecture about what happened to the plane.
From what our sources were telling us, it was obvious they didn't have any real facts and there was no point in pretending we did, either.
It has to be seen on a satellite, it has to be seen on a radar.
But none of the theories have any evidence to back it up.
This case is far more baffling because we have a plane that reversed its flight path, traveled almost in a line to Antarctica and apparently stayed aloft until it ran out of fuel.
And as we try to imagine what was going on aboard the aircraft this entire time, would the other crew members have just stood by and let the plane go off in the opposite direction?
There's a very good reason for us to want to extend the resource necessary to unravel this mystery.