In the Times story, editor Davan Maharaj said publishing the photos "would fulfill our obligation to readers to report vigorously and impartially on all aspects of the American mission in Afghanistan, including the allegation that the images reflect a breakdown in unit discipline that was endangering U.S.
The images are just the latest in a string of scandals that some say could damage U.S. efforts in the war, which is in its 11th year.
CNN spoke with three national security and military experts about the images and what impact they may have on the U.S. mission in Afghanistan.
Robert Baer is a former CIA agent who spent most of his career in the Middle East.
It's not the end of the world, but if it continues on like this -- more bad news -- we're going to have a very, very difficult time stabilizing this country before 2014.
I don't think we're going to speed it up, we're just going to hope for the best and get better control of the military.
This is very damaging to all the U.S. efforts, specifically the U.S. effort to assure it stays in harness with the Afghan government and the Afghan security forces moving forward in this critically important mission.
You've got to hold these bad guys with respect that they deserve if they're willing to kill themselves to achieve a goal ... our soldiers understand this.
The record of the military in our conflicts, both in Afghanistan and Iraq, and routine activities that take place every day around the globe [have been] decentralized out to young men and women like these folks [in the photos], who sadly made a huge mistake.
It speaks to this isolated incident, and it doesn't speak to a full breakdown in terms of morale and discipline and capabilities in our military.
[The photos don't] represent the standards or the training or the values of the United States armed forces.
This is an exception, and I know the military will take their proper measures.
And it's not going to recover, at least not in the near term there.
I think we can expect to fulfill the obligations to Hamid Karzai's government.
So, there have been a lot of losses, a lot of tragedy, there's been a lot of hatred.