(CNN) -- Just moments after Mitt Romney triumphantly introduced Congressman Paul Ryan to American voters on the deck of the battleship USS Wisconsin, I happened to witness a heart-wrenching event on the tarmac of an airport hundreds of miles away: The casket of a fallen service member was returning home to his family in Florida.
President George W. Bush did not expect 9/11 (crazy conspiracy theories aside), just as Obama had no idea that the Arab uprisings would transform a key region of the world and test his skill in a series of conflicts, some of which confronted America's values against its alliances.
The Republican duo differs dramatically from Obama and Vice President Joe Biden when it comes to economic policy, but on foreign affairs it's hard to find a truly sharp disagreement on fundamental issues, despite dissimilarities in tone.
And so did Romney, who tried to draw a distinction with the president by launching his campaign with a book unsubtly titled, "No Apology: The Case for American Greatness."
Ryan, who has no foreign policy experience and has spoken little of it, outlined the dilemma facing the U.S. when he spoke about the Arab uprisings.
On Iran, arguably the most important foreign policy question and conceivably a new war front for America, both Romney and Obama have stated that Iran must not be allowed to develop nuclear weapons.
Romney and Ryan may ultimately speak more forcefully in public settings about the Middle East -- and that is easier to do when you don't yet hold power -- but the fact is that Obama has earned high praise from many Israeli hawks.
Obama's effort to win over Muslims, which has largely failed, created the impression that the alliance between Israel and the United States is not as strong as it once was.
The two campaigns have differences in some areas, particularly regarding the future Pentagon budget, which Obama would cut by $500 billion in 10 years.
The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Frida Ghitis.