Stores will open at 9 p.m. on Thanksgiving this year, reflecting a wider shift in the retail industry toward getting a head start on the biggest shopping day of the year.
She has to sleep at some point, so traveling 45 minutes each way for Thanksgiving dinner is out.
My anger is aimed at the loss of a day that, up until now, was considered important enough for only the most essential services to be open."
She's not the only one who thinks the "Black Friday creep" hurts employees and their families, with some taking action.
"Employees and customers alike are saying, 'Thanksgiving should be about celebrating with family, not shopping for the latest deals,' " Hill said.
"After 33 years in retail, I still love everything about the holidays....except telling some poor employee she has to forgo her family holiday because she has to work!
The sister of a Target employee in Illinois started a petition on behalf of her family, claiming that for them, Thanksgiving will "not be complete" without him.
He rushed through dinner and had to leave for his shift just as everyone was starting to unwind.
"Thanksgiving weekend is one of the busiest of the year, and we appreciate our Target team's flexibility on this weekend and throughout the holiday season."
Walmart also was named in several petitions, though most of its stores are open 24 hours and 365 days a year, including Thanksgiving.
But now, sales on those days are the norm, showing that over time, society grows accustomed to changes and demands of the free market.
Just as consumers are driving the demand, employees are choosing to work in the field, leaving companies with little choice but to take advantage of every opportunity in the marketplace, said Bill Peppler with staffing firm Kavaliro.
But she is hopeful that her petition and others like it will make Target's leadership reconsider opening early for Thanksgiving next year.
"Going forward I hope it forces Target and other companies to take another look when they realize how many people out there care about this issue," she said.
Sound off in the comments section below.