His Iranian visitor, Saeed Jalili, responded, "What is happening in Syria is not an internal issue but a conflict between the axis of resistance on one hand and regional and global enemies of this axis on the other."
That information would make clear that Iran is increasingly likely to lose its only ally in the region, greatly reducing its strategic reach," he says.
A United Nations panel reported in May that Iranian weapons destined for Syria but seized in Turkey included assault rifles, explosives, detonators, machine guns and mortar shells.
"Some retired individuals from the (Revolutionary) Guards and army were dispatched to Syria to make a pilgrimage," Foreign Minister Ali Akbar Salehi told the official Iranian news agency, a statement that will likely be seized upon by the rebels as confirmation that Iran is directly aiding the al-Assad regime.
International sanctions imposed chiefly by the United States and Europe are biting, renewed political violence is destabilizing Iraq, and Iran's relationship with Turkey has eroded badly.
This week, Iran's chief of staff Hassan Firouzabadi accused Turkey of helping the "belligerent objectives" of Western powers, prompting the Turkish Foreign Ministry to condemn "groundless accusations and extremely inappropriate threats" of Iranian officials.
And it is likely to be a Syria where central control is much weaker in the face of sectarian and clan fissures.
"If the Alawis are afraid and fall back on their heartland, there too you're going to have a situation where a new central government in Damascus will have to wrestle with a state that is not strongly unified," Young told the New York-based Council on Foreign Relations.
The provision of additional arms and intelligence is also likely in the near term, he says.
He said last month that the four senior Syrian officials killed in a bomb blast in Damascus were "martyrs" and boasted that the rockets Hezbollah had fired at Israel in 2006 were made in Syria.
But both it and Iran are now trying to peer into a future as gloomy as it is opaque.