Our biggest beef with Kayak's competitors is that, when you click to book a fare, you're typically directed to a new page.
Once you've found a good flight, click on the price and you'll be sent directly to the airline's Web site, where the exact price for the exact flight you selected unfailingly appears.
If the chart says that the average fare for your route is much higher than the fare you're seeing today, then you should probably book the ticket because it's cheap relative to historic prices.
You'll receive an e-mail alert as soon as the flight drops to your specified price.
To name your "trigger" price, look at Kayak's fare-history chart to see the lowest fare recorded for this route, and use an amount close to that as your baseline.
To see how much you might save, we recommend you take Kayak's flexible-date search tool for a spin -- it covers the broadest range of routes and airports of the competing tools we tested.
Travelocity provided a few different ways to search flexibly -- either within a few days of a selected date, or over selected months -- but like Orbitz it failed to show dates and departure times right away.
The quickest way to figure out if you can save by booking two tickets is to figure out if there is a hub airport that funnels most American travelers to your overseas destination.
We recently tested this approach for a round-trip between Houston and Sydney.
If there's a large number of flights to Australia passing through L.A., then the City of Angels might offer bargain direct flights to Down Under -- because the greater volume of flights often prompts a greater number of fare sales.
If you decide to book two tickets on two different airlines, be sure to allow extra time to make your connections, and consider buying good travel insurance to make sure you're covered in the event of a problem.
But don't get rained on: before you opt for a cheaper season, you'll want to know about the average weather, so search your guidebook (or a site like weather.com) for monthly trends.
For instance, we recently discovered that fares from Houston to Australia were as much as $800 lower in November than in January.