In any large American city, this house would be a suburban, upper-middle class home -- but here in the town of Antunez, located in a mainly rural area of the Mexican southwestern state of Michoacan, it seems much grander, certainly in stark contrast with the adobe houses next door.
The drug war in Mexico, which has been raging since former President Felipe Calderon started fighting back against the cartels in 2006, has claimed 100,000 lives.
Rosales is a lieutenant under the leadership of Servando Gomez, also known as "La Tuta," the head of the Knights Templar cartel.
He makes occasional public appearances, handing out money to the poor -- he considers himself an altruist -- and loudly trying to justify his presence in the state.
On the wall, there's a rack for a large flat screen TV; but the vigilante groups have looted the house already and many pieces of furniture are missing, giving the residence the feeling of a house whose owners have just moved out.
It's still clean, with the exception of the bathrooms, but the beds are unmade and there are pieces of furniture and objects in odd places.
He also owned a nearby ranch called "La Ilusion" (The Illusion), which is surrounded by grapefruit trees and hundreds of hectares of avocado trees, the fruit of which has made the state of Michoacan known around the world.
A vigilante in the nearby town of La Huerta, who covers his face with a ski mask and identifies himself as "Juan," says they say they had no option but to rise up in arms to protect their people and lands.
He says he lived in North Carolina from the time he was eight years old and returned to Mexico when he was 20.
Hipolito Mora, the leader of yet another vigilante group in the town of Felipe Carrillo Puerto, says they have kept the movement against organized crime with the same resources the Knights Templar used to attack them in the past.
The same morning we spoke to Mora, Grace Villa, a town resident, visited to personally thank him for allowing her and her family to recover their lime orchards.
The drug cartels were just sucking the money out of everybody and it was just going too far."