In 2003, when the Massachusetts Supreme Court became the country's first to legalize same-sex marriage, less than 30% of religiously affiliated Americans supported gays' and lesbians' right to wed.
According to PRRI's poll, there are now more people of faith who favor marriage equality than stand against it, a dramatic turn in one of this country's most divisive debates and a generational shift with the potential to sweep through everything from the wedding industry to the 2016 presidential race.
On Tuesday, for example, as the Supreme Court hears oral arguments in Obergefell v. Hodges, a case widely expected to produce a landmark ruling on same-sex marriage, an interfaith coalition of clergy led by the dean of Washington's National Cathedral is planning to march in support of LGBT rights.
In a reverse of traditional arguments against gay marriage, some members of these groups say their religious rights will be curtailed if states do not allow them to perform same-sex nuptials.
Prominent and powerful religious groups are lined up on the other side as well, including the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops, National Association of Evangelicals, Southern Baptist Convention, Assemblies of God and the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, also known as the Mormon church.
Mainline Protestants -- so-called for their prominence in 20th century American life -- also saw a huge shift in the last decade.
Those numbers could put GOP presidential candidates in a tight spot, said Jones, as they try to expand their base and appeal to younger Americans.
"The real challenge for GOP candidates is how can they plant their feet deftly enough not to offend older conservatives in the primaries but still be able to pivot in the general election to a younger generation," Jones said.
Still, Burk said he doesn't doubt that more millennials accept same-sex marriage, and he fully expects the Supreme Court to legalize gay weddings countrywide this June when the justices render a decision in Obergefell v. Hodges.