"Nearly 50 years after the March on Washington, our work -- Dr. King's work -- is not yet complete," President Barack Obama said at the dedication ceremony.
Today's America can draw strength from that struggle, from King's belief that we are one people and from his refusal to give up, the president said.
A black preacher, no official rank or title, somehow gave voice to our deepest dreams and our most lasting ideas."
The monument to the slain civil rights leader was due to have been dedicated on August 28, the anniversary of the 1963 March on Washington when King delivered his world-altering "I Have a Dream" speech, but Hurricane Irene forced the event to be postponed.
She urged attendees to also pay homage to her mother, Coretta Scott King, who even as a grieving widow with four children "raised a nation in my father's teachings and values.
The memorial site, which features a striking 30-foot statue of King gazing out on the iconic Tidal Basin, lies between the Lincoln Memorial and the Thomas Jefferson Memorial on the National Mall.
On Sunday, he described his father as "a champion of human rights and social justice for all people," regardless of race, gender and ethnicity.
Former CBS Evening News anchor Dan Rather said that while King's main battle was racial injustice, today's fight is against greed and for economic justice.
"And in the spirit of Dr. King's lasting legacy, we need to start now."
He recalled that King never asked protesters to do anything he would not do himself.
"Come and walk in my shoes," he told attendees.
"Dr. King is telling you that we have changed.
Singer Aretha Franklin sang "Take My Hand, Precious Lord," a tune she said King often requested.
"I feel strongly that the whole thing should've been done here in America," Dwight said.
Celebrated poet and author Maya Angelou has a different objection to the memorial, saying that one of the quotes has been edited to make King appear arrogant.
"It should not be seen like he was so full of himself.
The memorial's executive architect Ed Jackson stood by the wording and said there are no plans to alter the structure.
"In no way do we believe that this paraphrased statement diminishes Dr. King's intent of the words he delivered," Jackson said.
CNN's Athena Jones, T.J. Holmes and Roland Martin contributed to this report.