(CNN) -- There are few more concrete examples of the longtime rift between Catholics and Protestants in Northern Ireland than the walled city on the River Foyle.
This weekend, however, Derry-Londonderry plays host to an event its organizers hope can help unite this divided city, at least for a few days.
And we're going there in the hope that ... maybe people who haven't felt comfortable standing next to each other in the streets will find an opportunity to do that," said Helen Marriage, co-director of Artichoke, a London-based company that stages large-scale public events across the UK.
In the early 2000s, Marriage and Webb wanted to bring Royal de Luxe, a French street-theater company, to London to mount a spectacle in the streets with enormous marionettes acting out a fanciful story about a young girl and a time-traveling elephant.
"You can imagine sitting in front of 25 gentlemen in various uniforms and suits, and saying, 'Hey guys, it's a kind of fairy story, about an elephant and a little girl.
If you say to somebody, 'Please may I do this thing that's a bit unusual,' you're placing them in a position where they have to authorize your unusual behavior.
Because nobody was being asked to take responsibility for something they couldn't possibly imagine.
Londoners, despite anxieties about crowded public spaces after the terrorist bombings that had rocked the city 10 months earlier, turned out in droves.
And they can wander freely as if in a playground, for no better reason than something is happening that they love.
Thousands invested in the illusion that they were peeking through a subterranean scope at the other side of the world.
More than 35,000 applied and the winners -- "plinthers," they were called -- were picked randomly by lottery and assigned a time.
"We always choose projects where we can insert the project itself into the DNA of the city," she continued.
The festival proved so popular that it was repeated in 2011 and then again earlier this month, when an estimated 175,000 people came to view 22 installations across the city.
At its simplest level, Lumiere invites people to come out and enjoy artworks specially designed for each nook and cranny of its historic host cities.
But Marriage is optimistic.