None of these, in the long run, might be as important as his efforts to help the economy, which, ironically, has felt stronger just as Americans' faith in Obama to steer it has dwindled.
"If the economy moves in a positive direction and in the next two years we are really out of the sluggish economy that he started his presidency with, people will value that."
He'd also have more power to sway budget negotiations that could affect future spending on social programs such as Medicare and Social Security.
"I think if the health care law is in place and works, he'll be remembered really favorably," said Weatherford, comparing the law to the Great Society social programs enacted by President Lyndon Johnson.
In hindsight, that 6.8% figure from 2008 seems low, either because Americans at the time were used to much lower jobless rates or because in the time since then we've become used to much higher rates.
Now we call it the Great Recession, something much worse than your father's recession but probably not quite as bad as your grandfather's Great Depression.
The Federal Reserve was just beginning to pump trillions of dollars into the economy through a menu of bond-buying programs and artificially low interest rates.
"If the last two years of the Obama presidency are filled with a possibility economy, it's going to change the way we view the stimulus and his other economic programs," he said.
That means the country could have faced 12% unemployment instead of 10% at the height of the Great Recession, but we'll never know for sure.
Potentially rising interest rates and less help for the unemployed and the hungry as those stimulus programs run out could exacerbate the problem, which Obama has made clear will be a focus of his remaining time in office.
It was at the center of last year's campaign," Obama told a liberal group during a speech in an economically depressed area of Washington, D.C., on Wednesday.
After his re-election, Obama extended Bush-era tax cuts for all but the wealthiest Americans, making good on his campaign effort to make them pay a little more in the coming years.
That means it's perhaps not fair to give presidents credit when the economy improves or blame them when it goes bad.
"Presidents don't have total control of the economy.