In a letter last month to Science, 255 of the nation's most prominent scientists -- all members of the National Academy of Sciences, including 11 Nobel laureates -- repeat conclusions that by now should be entirely familiar, even tedious, to anyone who has followed the science at all.
The immediate trigger for the letter Virginia State Attorney General Kenneth T. Cuccinelli's recent demand that climate scientist Michael Mann, director of the Earth System Science Center at Penn State University, produce a large volume of paperwork related to his scientific research and communications with fellow scientists during his years at University of Virginia from 1999 to 2005.
Because the hockey stick curve is visually compelling, it's been reproduced many times, and in 2001 the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change featured it in their third assessment report.
Two years later, Texas Rep. Joseph Barton demanded that Mann supply copious documentation related to his testimony, based on what Barton, who has no scientific training, alleged were "methodological flaws and data errors" in his work.
Perhaps no scientific name is more associated with global warming than Roger Revelle, mentor to Al Gore, who first warned of the risks of human-caused climate change in the 1950s.
He was soon sued by the author of the claim, and lacking funds to defend himself, was forced to settle out of court, leaving his personal and professional life in tatters.
Since the early 1990s, there has been a sustained history of attempts to undermine any science that suggested that contemporary industrial society might be doing irreparable harm to human health and the natural environment.
Nicolas Stern, former chief economist at the World Bank, has called global warming "the greatest and widest-ranging market failure ever seen."
The real crime is not to be found in some pile of obscure scientific documents or the e-mails of harassed scientists.
The real crime is that our best science is being undermined by ideologues, confusing us about some of the most important issues of our time.