It's up there with the Queen, a wonderfully indulgent cream tea, Beefeaters outside the Tower of London and all those quintessentially English pastimes which tend to draw those flocking from overseas.
It was a song they would come to regret as Arsenal grew in strength while Spurs faltered, eventually leading to Harry Redknapp's exit and the failure to reach the promised land of the Champions League.
But his spell in charge proved a disaster, leaving the club on the brink of exit from the Champions League, out of the Premier League title race and facing humiliation.
It was Bale, of course, who proved the man for the occasion, firing Tottenham ahead eight minutes before the break with a coolly taken finish -- his 20th of the season.
In fact, not since 1995 has Tottenham finished above Arsenal in England's top division, a statistic which will surely be consigned to history at the end of the current campaign.
It is important we gather as many points as we can to finish where we want to be.
"Last year, by this time, Arsenal made the difference of seven points to Tottenham and we know how it finished," Villas-Boas added.
Without a trophy in eight years, on the brink of an exit from the Champions League, the Frenchman is facing the most difficult spell since he arrived at the club in October 1996.
"It is difficult to struggle with defeat because of the effort we put in and the energy level we put in over the 90 minutes was tremendous.
But as fans got back onto the London Underground this evening following the contest, the question marks over Wenger's future remain.
Trailing 2-0 at the break thanks to strikes from Gonzalo Bergessio and Giovanni Marchese, Inter fought back in the second half to turn the game on its head.
Elsewhere, Fiorentina gained a 2-1 win over Chievo, Bolgona defeated Cagliari 3-0 and Emanuel Icardi's 58th minute effort secured all three points for Sampdoria against Parma.
Mario Gomez's strike gave Bayern its 10th straight win, despite being given a difficult afternoon by the relegation threatened side.
Meanwhile, Bayern has been drawn at home to face Wolfsburg in the German Cup semifinal, while Freiburg will travel to Stuttgart in the other fixture.
Granada suffered a 2-1 home defeat by Mallorca, Espanyol drew 0-0 with Valladolid and Real Sociedad shared a six-goal thriller with Real Betis as it ended 3-3.