What began as a revised history of Superman's teen years in Smallville has come a long way over the years, with Clark Kent fighting crime in Metropolis as a rarely-seen hero called "The Blur," the introduction of Lois Lane, and other superheroes occasionally joining the fray.
At the same time, what was once one of the highest-rated dramas on TV, "Heroes," progressively lost viewers, ending its run on NBC after four seasons.
Their version of Clark Kent wouldn't take up the mantle of Superman, or even Superboy.
Even though we're in Metropolis and we're really touching on the Superman world, it's still a world where you can see yourself having coffee with the characters."
Another show that hopes to emphasize the humanity in the superhuman (without costumes as well) is ABC's new series "No Ordinary Family" (premiering September 28).
"The slow discovery of what it means, and how it affects your real life... like yes, I can run fast, but I can also make breakfast fast!
"I was mainly interested in the idea of powers and how people wrestled with and dealt with the idea of discovery of something new," he said.
"There was that kind of transparency between your life and characters on the show.
"The Cape," premiering early next year, is about an innocent man falsely accused of a crime, and seemingly killed while running from the authorities.
It's based in reality, and that helps you believe in what's going on a little more."
It may have had an overriding arc, but it was more of the emotional arcs that we were following," he said.
Whatever the emotional arc is going on, that's what you care about.
Villains came and went but Sylar, a serial killer driven by the overwhelming desire to acquire more supernatural powers, was a constant (and Zachary Quinto's performance earned him the opportunity to play the iconic Spock in the 2009 "Star Trek" movie).
In the first episode, he introduces two by the names of Chess and Scales.
(Indeed, some "Heroes" fans felt that some of the overly complex aspects of the show as it went on may have played a hand in its loss of viewership over the years.)
"Every power has been thought of.