Beyond economics, the public mood seemed to lift: There was new hope for a young and tech-savvy India, unburdened by the failures of the past.
Modi has won a broad mandate, as evidenced by his party's performance in tricky state elections in December.
But in 2015, Modi will need to transition from speechmaker to doer, or else risk disenchanting another generation.
Cheaper oil was a boon to India's economy: The deficit shrank, inflation fell, and perhaps most crucially, the government took the opportunity to end decades of subsidies and deregulated diesel.
Can it really improve India's broken infrastructure -- ports, roads, trains and bridges, some of which never seem to connect?
India needs to rid itself of arcane laws on retrospective taxation.
Can he really, as his government has promised, improve India's ranking for doing business from a dismal 142nd in the world to somewhere in the top 50?
He will look to strike deals not only with Obama, but with many other world leaders in 2015 -- on energy, trade, defense and infrastructure partnerships.
The great unknown is how he will respond to a major foreign policy crisis, the likes of which he largely escaped in 2014.
On domestic issues, a year ago, Modi was known outside India mostly for his inability -- or worse, apathy -- in stopping one of the worst religious riots in modern Indian history, when some 2,000 Muslims were killed in Gujarat, the state he ran at the time.
In 2015, Modi will need not only to be a voice of reason, but he will also have to rein in radical fringe elements of his Hindu support base.
As I've written previously, India has let its women down for centuries: They rank 134th in the world for economic opportunities, 126th for education and 141st for health.
The pace of technology adoption, coupled with faster and cheaper hardware, will transform India in ways we are only just beginning to comprehend.
So, expect India to start leapfrogging many of the problems the West has spent decades dealing with: India has never had a real database of its citizens, but soon it will be the first country to have an entirely digital biometric ID system.