Todd English continues to expand his empire with the third outpost of his South American-inspired steak house, Bonfire, at Terminal B. Grilled chicharrones (crispy pork in chimichurri sauce) and skirt steak topped with chipotle aioli and avocado crema are standouts.
In addition to a Michelin star-worthy menu (braised pork cheeks with honey and cloves and brioche French toast with treacle-cured bacon in the mornings), travelers can opt for special "picnics"-to-go.
Always on tap: four different Danish seasonal, handcrafted beers served at its stainless-steel bar.
Taking design cues from its namesake older sibling in the Fullerton Hotel, the just-opened Post Bar in Terminal 3 mixes traditional and modern design elements (retro Artichoke lamps; an illuminated honey-onyx bar).
More than 10 tons of limestone from the Jura Mountains were used in the construction, the menu consists of national dishes such as älplermakkaroni (Alpine-style macaroni-and-cheese), and the chocolate leather chairs and sofas were produced by Vitra (though designed by Londoner Jasper Morrison).
San Francisco-based Gensler Architects (currently at work on JFK's new JetBlue terminal) have created a 15,000-square-foot eco-lounge that evokes a contemporary California-cool vibe, with sea grass-resin panels, chiseled limestone walls, B&B Italia chairs and walnut-wood partitions.
Australia's premier interior and furniture designer, Marc Newson, has put his futuristic feng shui touch on the carrier's new first-class lounge.
Instead, spend your leftover yen at one of eight designer boutiques: Bulgari, Burberry, Cartier, Coach, Gucci, Hermès, Salvatore Ferragamo and Tiffany & Co. narita-airport.jp/en.
The U.S.-based spa has made its first foray into Europe, bringing signature massage loungers and manicure stations to Level 2 of Schiphol.
Choose from more than 30 treatments, including seed scrubs and jasmine milk baths and take a dip in the hotel's 70-foot-long indoor and outdoor pools.
The four signature treatments (including a scalp, hand and foot massage, and a facial) start with a lime-infused compress and take place in a state-of-the-art heated massage chair.
Copyright 2009 American Express Publishing Corporation.