He hoped that somehow his presence on the sidewalk would help relatives and friends nearly 9,400 miles away, in his hometown -- the besieged Syrian city of Kobani.
Mohamad longed to do what he could to help his fellow Kurds -- even from a great distance, in the relative safety of America.
"I felt it was my duty to undertake this hunger strike to share the pain and suffering of the people of Kobani with the people of America," he said from his perch on an overpass above Connecticut Avenue, strategically chosen for its foot traffic and proximity to a Starbucks.
Though it had been more than two weeks since he had eaten solid food, he remained in good spirits.
That's a reference to an ISIS practice documented by human rights organizations: Members of ISIS have enslaved and sold women in parts of Iraq and Syria they have captured since their dramatic and bloody ascent.
They may have heard that the terrorists in ISIS have beheaded people and gloated about it in online in gruesome videos.
He said militants kidnapped his nephew and held him for five months, forcing him to watch violent videos.
He said he and the other students were on buses, riding home from school after final exams, when ISIS fighters in pickups stopped them.
The boys wound up in an ISIS-controlled city, where they were forced to watch videos of executions and suicide bombings, said the teenager, Mohammed, who asked that his full name not be used for fear of his safety.
That brought a grin to his face as he nestled back into his new home away from home, blocking the erratic wind with a placard reading "Fasting for Kobani."
So the next day, surrounded by friends and supporters, Mohamad enjoyed a bowl of lentil soup there on the sidewalk he had occupied for more than three weeks.
"In doing what I did, I was not only trying to share the suffering of my compatriots, but also pay homage to the likes of Gandhi and Dr. King, who thought if suffering has to be endured for the social good, the activists should undergo it first," he said.
That's a hard question to answer, he said, but he has no regrets.