The helicopters landed near Punta Vista Hermosa, a majestic resort where condos sell for millions of Mexican pesos, and before long, seemingly hundreds of military personnel were on its grounds.
Six other cartel members and one naval petty officer also died in the raid.
The end of Beltran Leyva's reign at the helm of the violent cartel was hailed by Mexico and the United States as a major victory for Calderon's offensive against the cartels, a war that has claimed more than 14,000 lives since 2006.
"[Beltran Leyva's] death has dealt a crippling blow to one of the most violent cartels in the world, and it comes as a result of significant cooperation and information sharing between law enforcement in the United States and our courageous partners in Mexico," DEA Acting Administrator Michele M. Leonhart said in a written statement.
It was believed that the raid was linked to another operation last week.
Three military personnel posted themselves inside the hospital hours before the shooting started, saying only that they were in the middle of an operation, said Dr. Antonio Villa Montiel.
"There was gunfire, machine gun fire and grenades, some of it very close to the hospital," he said.
The death of the leader of a major drug cartel is a victory for the government, but it could also spur more violence, said Payan, an expert on drug trafficking in Mexico.
A series of disputes over the past years, however, led the Beltran Leyva brothers to turn on El Chapo, or "shorty," and they have been most recently linked with Los Zetas, another violent cartel opposed to the Sinaloa group.
One of the Beltran Leyva brothers, Alfredo, was arrested by Mexican authorities last year and remains imprisoned.
Earlier this month, the U.S. Treasury Department added Hector Beltran Leyva and other top cartel figures to a list of "specially designated narcotics traffickers," a move that freezes any assets they have under U.S. jurisdiction and prohibits people in the United States from conducting business with them.
The reason may be because after years in the field, the army was not as reliable as a fresh force.