These days, they're touted on websites, blogs, and online forums.
Health asked medical experts to weigh in on the Internet's most popular home cures.
Unfortunately, "no study shows conclusively that eating yogurt cures or even lessens the severity of yeast infections," says Michele G. Curtis, M.D., professor of obstetrics and gynecology at the University of Texas Medical School at Houston.
If you're sure you have a yeast infection, based on a past experience, Curtis recommends using an over-the-counter medication, such as Monistat.
While it may sound like something from Harry Potter's wizarding world, this remedy is not all hocus-pocus: Some studies suggest that black cohosh may indeed reduce hot flashes, according to guidelines re-released last year by the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists.
In fact, the herb is often prescribed in Europe; it's a key ingredient in Remifemin, a popular drug there, which is also available in the United States.
And getting the nutrient in your food (such as calcium-packed dairy) may keep them at bay altogether: In a recent study conducted at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst, women who consumed four servings a day of skim or low-fat milk reduced their risk of developing PMS by 46%.
"Tea tree oil is antifungal and antibacterial," says Debra Jaliman, M.D., a New York City-based dermatologist.
"The oil can cause rashes and even blistering," warns Jerome Z. Litt, M.D., assistant clinical professor of dermatology at Case Western Reserve University School of Medicine in Cleveland and the author of "Your Skin from A to Z."
"Inhaling steam flushes out your nasal passages, relieving sinus pressure," explains Neil Kao, M.D., head of research at the Allergic Disease and Asthma Center in Greenville, South Carolina.
Another natural alternative: Using a neti pot to irrigate the nostrils with saline solution, which can also ease sinus symptoms, according to one study.
"Black tea leaves have tannins, compounds that may inhibit the growth of viruses and bacteria, but no studies have verified this," Hagen says.
If you're prone to UTIs, drink one to two glasses of cranberry juice daily to help prevent them.
"That points to something serious," Hagen says, "and means you should not be messing with a home remedy."