He wept and convulsed for more than 10 minutes, his body constricting and tightening in a way I'd never seen before.
"When I say the name Erwin Metz, what comes to your mind?"
Metz was one of the Nazi commanders who headed a slave labor camp known as Berga an der Elster, where 350 U.S. soldiers -- 80 of whom had been targeted for being Jewish -- were beaten, starved and forced to work in tunnels at a secret V-2 rocket factory.
He shot one soldier, Morton Goldstein, through the head, execution-style, according to the survivors.
Acevedo catalogued the atrocities in a diary he kept hidden in his pants, using a Sheaffer fountain pen to record what he saw all around.
"You're going to kill him then," Acevedo responded.
Amid the chaos and death all around them, these men -- these soldiers who suffered so much -- took the time to stop and pray for their president.
When CNN first reported Acevedo's story in November, I had no idea it would lead to what I witnessed this weekend: The U.S. Army reversing course on six decades of silence and recognizing the Berga soldiers for what they went through.
Berga soldiers will tell you they were never called to testify against Metz or Merz.
When Metz and Merz were freed, the survivors felt the Army betrayed the war ethos of "leave no soldier behind."
As the survivors reached their 70s and 80s, many began wondering why the government still refused to recognize them.
But there at the Rosen Centre Hotel in Orlando, Florida, something magical transpired.
U.S. Army Maj. Gen. Vincent Boles did a sit-down interview with me, while six Berga survivors -- Samuel Fahrer, 86; Morton Brooks, 83; Sidney Lipson, 85; Peter Iosso, 83; Wallace Carden, 84; and Edward Slotkin, 84 -- watched.
I knew history had just been made, the legacy of the Berga soldiers preserved for all time.
Florence is a diminutive woman, the epitome of class and grace.
When she was notified Izzy was a prisoner of war on March 16, 1945, one relative shouted, "That's just like Izzy to take the easy way out of war."
She changed the family name, so her son would never be targeted as a Jew.
"My brother is the one who died in his arms."
He entered the Army so he could be just like his brother.
I've listened to each one and put them in touch with Acevedo for answers about their loved ones.
You can scroll through Acevedo's diary and read the War Department document explaining why Metz and Merz were set free.
It was humbling when Boles, the two-star general, told me that my reporting and my colleagues on CNN television preserved the men's legacy, culminating with the Army recognizing them.
It was an honor to see the six survivors present in Orlando receive flags flown over the Pentagon in their honor; Samuel Fahrer was awarded the Bronze Star, one of the nation's highest medals.
If he was going to leave her side, he felt the right thing would be to get honored in Washington.
My final message is to my generation and the next.
They're cut from a different cloth and we're losing them too fast.