When Sacha Gervasi, a former teenage Anvil fan-roadie turned Steven Spielberg scriptwriter ("The Terminal"), decided to pursue a documentary about his old heroes, guitarist Kudlow was working part-time in his native Toronto, Ontario, delivering meals to schools.
Gervasi followed the group on an ill-fated European tour, watched them make an album with a name producer, and saw Kudlow and Reiner fight and make up, fight and make up, as they have since they were 15 and swore they'd rock forever.
It's better than most documentaries, period," he wrote after seeing the film at the 2008 Sundance Film Festival.
The enthusiastic Kudlow and laconic Reiner came by CNN Center to talk about the film, their inspirations and why they've always been successful.
My internal optimism told me this is going to be the most successful thing that's ever happened to me, and perhaps one of the greatest things that's happened to rock music -- the greatest rock documentary that's ever happened.
CNN: The film, fairly or unfairly, has been presented as a real-life "Spinal Tap."
[The director] is the other Rob Reiner, and Spinal Tap is the fake Anvil.
CNN: A lot of times when a director sets out to make a documentary, the people who are in the documentary say, "You cut this out, you changed this."
They just filmed everything ... they could have made five different movies out of the footage they had.
CNN: There's that funny bit in the movie in which you [Lips] talk about meeting Reiner by observing, "I heard this guy playing Cactus."
And then later you met [Cactus drummer] Carmine Appice.
It's as if the screenwriting were done by God.
Even if it had ended then, you say in the movie that you've had the kind of success you were always hoping for.
And when Sacha contacted us after not seeing us for a number of years, it's not like we'd thrown in the towel or done anything like that.
There would be no movie if the music didn't mean anything, or hadn't meant something.
We've been doing that for the last two months throughout America, and it's like metal Beatlemania.
It's written, and we're just going to record at the end of the year and release it next year.