Before this week Google had a 35 percent share of the Chinese search engine market, a nontrivial number in a country of 400 million Internet users.
With the loyalty of millions of Chinese Internet searchers up for grabs, Baidu, the home-grown search engine with dominant market share in China, is expected to be the biggest winner.
Will Microsoft manage its legal obligations to the Chinese government in a way that helps legitimize and prolong current censorship practices, or in a way that helps reduce censorship over time -- or at the very least increases transparency and accountability to Chinese citizens?
While Microsoft intends to stay engaged in the China market, he said it does try to push back quietly against efforts to restrict peaceful political expression.
Chinese Internet companies -- including Baidu -- routinely delete content in response to casual phone calls and instant chat messages made by authorities who don't find it necessary to prove that their request has any legal basis.
Cisco was under fire for selling technology to China that helped authorities censor the Internet.
was in the doghouse for having helped authorities convict pro-democracy journalist Shi Tao and three other activists by handing over the contents of their e-mail to Chinese police.
When carrying out requests to censor entries on MSN Spaces (later renamed MSN Live Spaces), Microsoft's blogging and social networking platform, it would block pages from users on the Chinese network, but leave them visible to people viewing the page from all other countries.
We have to take it at its word that it's only responding to censorship requests made through a legally binding procedure.
While the initiative does not expect companies to make their local employees conduct civil disobedience or pull out of markets at the first sign of difficulty, the GNI does expect that companies will not comply with arbitrary requests and will seek to protect users from the kinds of surveillance that could lead to human rights violations.
When we know the answers to those questions, we'll know which road Bing has taken in China.