(CNN) -- Ah, London.
This mini-guide is filled with the information you need to get in and out of London while impressing the clients and co-workers and still having time to eat royally, take jealousy-inducing pictures and pick up the kinds of souvenirs the folks back home will actually keep.
By far the most comfortable way to get from the airport into the city is by using a car service.
Some Deluxe King rooms have views of Brook Street, a Mayfair parade lined with fine restaurants and lavish boutiques.
If the diversions of Soho aren't enough, the hotel has its own movie theater and bowling alley.
The hotel's Iconic City View Room offers floor-to-ceiling windows that allow you to gaze across the Thames River at St. Paul's Cathedral, Big Ben and The Gherkin.
The menu changes regularly but Ottolenghi says roasted aubergine is a must -- it's always on the menu and currently with nutty almond yoghurt, pickled chili and paprika toasted almonds.
All the big international brands are represented in London and there are plenty of high-end department stores, but the best-kept secret is the city's boutiques, which show off the wealth of homegrown fashion.
These include this season's Chartreuse Cashmere-Blend Epsom Coat and Slim-Fit Navy Wool Suit, with trademark modish tailoring.
As London was named selfie capital of the world earlier this year, it'd be wrong to leave without getting a few.
For a stunning picture of yourself next to St. Paul's Cathedral, go to the Millennium Bridge, which runs between the cathedral and the Tate Modern art gallery.
For shopping, you can head for the narrow streets near the tube station or see if you can score a last-minute ticket at the Royal Opera House.
A few tube stops west of central London, this well-heeled area around Westbourne Grove and Ledbury Road is full of boutiques and cafes, while Portobello Road, lined with charming terraces of pastel-colored houses, has an excellent antiques market.
London's many art galleries all have shops attached and are a great source of presents and souvenirs that are tasteful and different.
Former CNN International producer Mairi Mackay is an award-winning Scottish journalist who splits her time between London, Tel Aviv and Jenin in the West Bank.