Three gunmen burst into the satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo's headquarters on Wednesday morning and also fired at police officers in the streets outside while shouting "Allahu Akbar" -- God is Great in Arabic.
Sitting in the Oval Office alongside Vice President Joe Biden and Secretary of State John Kerry, Obama also stressed that the U.S. would work to ensure the safety of Americans living around the world because "these kinds of attacks can happen anywhere in the world," he said.
"We stand with you in solidarity and in commitment both to the cause of confronting extremism and in the cause which the extremists fear so much and which has always united our two countries: freedom," Kerry said in a press conference.
Earnest added that top national security officials have been in touch with their counterparts in France and that the U.S. will provide resources to investigate the attack.
"[These are] actors who may lurk within our society, that could strike with little notice, commit an act of violence because they have been inspired by things they have seen on the internet, social media, in literature, without accepting a direct order...from a terrorist organization," Johnson said.
The embassy also changed its Twitter profile picture to the "Je suis Charlie" (I am Charlie) image circulating in France in the wake of the attack.
The attack Wednesday was not the first time the satirical publication Charlie Hebdo apparently drew the ire of Islamists.
We know that these images will be deeply offensive to many and have the potential to be inflammatory," then-White House Press Secretary Jay Carney said.
"Now it has to be said, and I'll say it again, that no matter how offensive something like this is, it is not in any way justification for violence," Carney said at the same briefing.
Sen. Joe Manchin (D-West Virginia) called the attack a "horrific situation" and said the U.S. needs to be "very vigilant" on MSNBC.
"There wont be another day in our life that we wont have to be vigilant about terrorist attacks in any place," he said.
"Even though it's in France, it's an attack on us," Graham said.