For most of the last decade it has made a dramatic reduction in the rate of deforestation -- providing a model of how it could be tackled in other rainforest areas such as Indonesia and Congo.
Brazil's environment ministry credits its success on a combination of support for sustainable activities and near real-time satellite monitoring of forest regions that allows it to target illegal operations with extra agents.
Combined with the strong presence of 'ruralists' in the Congress -- congressmen linked to the agri-business sector -- there is good reason to be very concerned for the future of forests in Brazil," said Jessica Miller of Greenpeace Brazil.
Cattle ranching is often used to guarantee the ownership of the area by land grabbers," she said.
It sets out regulations to restore the land.
So it is clear that neither side will be satisfied with any code that the government approves."
They are concerned about the threat to the huge range of animals and plants found in the world's rainforests -- scientists from the Secretariat of the Convention on Biological Diversity estimate that at least two thirds of all Earth's terrestrial species are found in tropical forests.
Central Kalimantan was chosen as a pilot project -- an area of Indonesia that has seen widespread forest destruction.
Greenpeace says there are major loopholes in the Indonesian moratorium, saying the safeguards are inadequate with no review of existing concessions, and criticizes the lack of a good monitoring system.
It means the existence of indigenous peoples and local peoples are at risk as, currently, the government tends to give more priority to the large scale industries of forestry, plantation and mining," he said.
A spokesman for the Indonesian government adds that they are working on the maps and new concessions permits, and to determine the extent of forest damage and how to control it.
Greenpeace's Indradi says Brazil's strong point has been to implement better forest governance, backed up with good monitoring and serious law enforcement.