Last week, the U.S. Federal Trade Commission wrote a letter saying ICANN has long failed to provide safeguards that protect consumers from online swindlers and help cybersecurity officials catch such crooks.
The government is also concerned that it will have a more difficult time getting information about website owners after the switch.
As for the domain expansion, ICANN officials say they are working to improve the data they can provide to governments and police, and that they have stringent rules in place for who can register which extensions.
He says he has serious concerns about a bill in the U.S. Congress called the Stop Online Piracy Act, which shifts much of the blame for carrying illegal content onto website publishers.
As Internet access begins to reach practically every part of the world through the proliferation of smartphones, the network is at risk of being pulled in many different directions -- or splintering, as it has behind China's Great Firewall.
"ICANN stays neutral, and it has to keep running," Beckstrom said in a recent interview from his office here in Silicon Valley.
"ICANN's role in all of this is very restricted, but we often get looked at as the center of these things," Crocker said.
The Internet's governmental bodies say they are more effective at getting things done than America's political system, which is often seen as polarized and gridlocked.
"If people (in national government) would take time to listen as much as they postulate their views, then we would have progress," Curran said by phone last week.
In the efficiency-obsessed technology sector, ICANN has streamlined its system of yearly goals under Beckstrom, a former finance executive for Morgan Stanley who transitioned to high tech and cashed out at the height of the dot-com bubble in 1999.
As its name implies, the plan involves designing a network that can work in outer space.
Light speed is fine for the Earth's Internet, but it is an obstacle when sending an e-mail to Mars.
As new demands and stakeholders emerge, the Internet and its stewards will find obstacles, whether it's an overzealous government or the speed of light.