A design student at the University of Edinburgh, he was aiming to produce an artistic exhibition for a module on sustainability, when he stumbled on "Dupe," a living alternative to concrete.
After a year, and hundreds of failed experiments, this process manufactured a stool around 70% the compression strength of concrete.
You could use sand and bacteria on site, practically free, and have shelter housing that is far more permanent."
British architects see an opportunity to cultivate new life in deserts, while NASA believe bacteria could allow the construction of bases on other planets without the headache of ferrying the material there.
Over five days the mycelium binds the waste to create a block with a stronger compressive strength than concrete, with none of the heat or energy required by regular bricks.
Mycelium effectively dies once its growth is complete, but Harrington is looking ahead to material that does not.
A collaboration with architects The Living won the prestigious MOMA (Museum of Modern Art) PS-1 competition, and their creation will be installed in the museum courtyard this summer.
The material's versatility offers unique design opportunities, says David Benjamin, lead architect of the project.
Future applications would include pop-up stores, festival "tents" and emergency shelters, says Benjamin, but there are greater hopes for the material within the industry.
The material is stronger than concrete, with better insulation capacities".
Michael Pawlyn, director of Exploration Architecture, is a leading figure in biomimicry, having previously applied natural processes to create man-made forests in England and the Sahara Desert.
Drawing on the natural accumulation of coral reefs, his team would install a steel frame in the deep ocean and leave it to attract material.
But from rock to fungus, sand to space dust, the use of materials and processes designed by nature herself offer both a solution to the sustainability crisis, and a glimpse of our new built environment: clean, efficient, and alive.
New technology can detect your mood