Most of its customers have been coming for decades; the waitresses have a good-hearted, cigarette-scented toughness about them; the steaks are the size of Cook County; and the salad dressings are served from a twirling "carousel," so that you can legitimately play with your food.
It's the kind of place that's frozen in time, where you just have to order a Rob Roy.
I asked Phyllis if she would mind if we stayed home.
It was for a sausage and bean ragout, and when I read the list of ingredients, I thought, Hmm.
But now Suzie's recipe seemed just right for the occasion, even though neither Phyllis nor I, experienced (and good) cooks both, knew exactly what a "ragout" was.
Then Phyllis lowered the volume on the stereo and came to sit down at the kitchen table.
For the most part, I truly appreciate that kind of honesty, and so I'm willing to suffer whatever consequences may come along with it.
She had bound them into a book and then done something to every page -- enhanced it with color, with silver sprinkles of confetti, with little candy hearts, with autumn leaves, with rubber stamps of coffee cups, with cutout ads from vintage magazines, with collages of various sorts.
It was a true work of art, a labor-intensive wonder, and I loved everything about it -- except the person I was in most of those letters.
So now, with us alone and in our stocking feet in my kitchen, she told me of her own sadness, of how she had told other friends that I had not liked what she had so earnestly and carefully and creatively done.
The person who wrote those letters spent an awful lot of time feeling bad: about herself, about choices she had made, about life in general.
-- but she is routinely dazzled by the truth of a simple equation: Life offers far more good than bad.
Certainly the letters showed how sad I had been, but they also illustrated that even in those dark days I had a pretty dang good sense of humor and a deep love for many things: my children, nature, art, food, the eccentricities and vulnerabilities of people.
For me, it will always suggest another kind of mix: a warm kitchen on a winter's day, an old friend's candor and absolute trust, and a new friend's generosity in giving me a recipe, which is always about more than it seems.
Copyright © 2011 Time Inc. All rights reserved.