Some traumatized refugees of these screenings stood alongside me at the red carpet outside Berlin's swanky Zoo Palast cinema, awaiting the arrival of the stars for the film's international premiere.
Several hundred fans huddled together for warmth, spurred on by a shared devotion to the books of E.L. James and the anticipation of catching an eyeful of Jamie Dornan, the handsome actor who plays her bondage-loving billionaire, Christian Grey.
Some fans had come along as couples, revealing different approaches to "Fifty Shades."
The camera crews and reporters bawled out equally hysterically, not in delight but frustration as the enormous entourage of minders and PR managers accompanying the cast obscured all but a glimpse of them.
I was wedged between a sharp piece of camera equipment from a rival broadcaster to my left and my CNN colleague to the right -- and it was he who inadvertently provided the most jarring moment of the evening, catching me full in the face with the back of his camera as he gamely fought to hold the line against a brute on a stepladder.
The "Fifty Shades" books have sold over 100 million copies worldwide and been translated into more than 50 languages -- the film's forthcoming Valentines Day release is this year's hot ticket.
Author and director are reported to have indulged in a few verbal lashings on-set but their creative partnership could tie them together for several more years with unofficial reports of sequels in the works.
Unscheduled moments of laughter punctuated Grey's post-coital visits to the piano but there were also moments of well-crafted mirth, notably a scene in which Christian and Anastasia sit at opposite ends of a business meeting room table and discuss the contract intended to govern their relationship.
The sex scenes account for little more than ten minutes in a film approaching two hours and I'd be surprised if many considered them shocking.
And when a movie becomes an "event movie," drawing crowds in vast numbers for a fun night out, the cheers of "Fifty Shades" fans may effectively pop a gag into the mouth of the most po-faced critic.