More than 600 dusty, sweaty people are singing as they hike through the hardwoods up the mountain.
The song is a Woody Guthrie tune, the one that became a folk anthem of sorts in the 1960s, and it seems very appropriate for this moment.
It has been organized to oppose "MTR," or mountaintop removal, a highly effective type of mining that involves blasting away slopes to get at the profitable coal seams underneath.
"If you stand for preserving our cultural heritage instead of destroying it, you stand for Blair Mountain," Chuck Keeney said to his followers before he led marchers out of Marmet, West Virginia, last week.
Coal is used to generate about half of the electricity consumed in the United States, and West Virginia is the second largest producer of that coal.
"I just don't want to see coal mining that destroys rivers, drives away the biodiversity of such a beautiful place and also drives away other jobs that could be in place of coal mining."
"Mountaintop removal is what built this house, sends that little girl to school, provides insurance for my wife, bought two cars and that motorcycle I showed you in the garage.
"That is why these people are yelling at us today, because they are brainwashed to think 'Oh, I can't have a job unless it's a mountaintop removal job.'"
A toddler at her feet screams, "Go home, go home," as the long line of marchers file by silently.
"It's been wonderful to talk to the opposition with no violence," Kish said along the marchers' route.
The marchers arrive at their destination and host a large rally before climbing Blair Mountain.
He remembers when Robert Kennedy's father came through Logan in 1960 campaigning for John F. Kennedy during the presidential election.
He is touched when he hears Kennedy's speech, and tells us that it shows people beyond Logan County care about an issue so important to him.
March organizer Chuck Keeney sums up the march as a success for raising awareness, but wants to do more to make sure there is no mountaintop mining of Blair.