(CNN) -- As Ashton Kutcher becomes the first to collect 1 million followers on Twitter and Oprah Winfrey sends out her first tweet, tech observers are debating: Does Friday mark a new peak for the microblogging service?
"The challenge for Twitter -- besides, of course, getting a business model in place to handle the infrastructure required to sustain this kind of growth -- is going to be maintaining the fact that it's the community at large, not the celebrity users, that's at the core of this service," said Caroline McCarthy, who writes a CNET News blog about social media.
In the much-publicized duel, Kutcher's Twitter account crossed the 1 million mark on Twitter about 2:13 a.m.
On Friday, Kutcher went on "Larry King Live" to talk about the battle and why he felt the duel was so important.
Winfrey drew more than 73,000 Twitter followers before she sent out her first tweet.
"Certainly having Oprah and Ashton embrace Twitter so enthusiastically will be another big moment for us."
Sean 'Diddy' Combs, who joined Twitter and threw his support behind Kutcher, told Larry King that he views Twitter as an important medium for him to share who he "really" is, and give fans a direct line of communication to him.
Kutcher told Larry King that initially, Twitter was a tool to feed his ego until he realized that he could use the service to make a difference.
"But if we can use our ego to actually create good charitable things in the world in some way, and use our ego -- originally, I defined Twitter as an ego stream when I first saw it.
The battle between @aplusk, Kutcher's Twitter handle, and CNN's feed gained much attention on Twitter, with fans pulling for both sides.
Now more than ever, the consumer is in the driver's seat and we couldn't be more gratified than to be part of this historic social media milestone," said CNN spokeswoman Jennifer Martin.
That account provides only brief updates about breaking news, therefore CNN doesn't send a lot of alerts -- just those for major events the network believes its audience will want to know.
"Ashton's 'Twitter race' is an amazing example of how we can leverage new technology to battle an ancient disease," said Scott Case, CEO of Malaria No More, the charity expected to benefit most from the mosquito bed net donations.
Cherwenka, the Huffington Post blogger, believes Kutcher may be one of the first people to leverage the power of online social networking for widespread social good.
"I know some Twitter early adopters and loyalists are feeling a bit ambivalent about this influx of mainstream attention, and are likening it to when their favorite indie band gets big overnight," said CNET's McCarthy.
"They're excited to see this service really take off, but at the same time are concerned that it's turning into a sort of novelty fad."