(CNN) -- No one may ever know for sure whether Ohio's execution of Dennis McGuire -- in a procedure during which he reportedly gasped, snorted and struggled -- was inhumane, but his family and medical and legal experts said Friday the ordeal points out fundamental flaws in the use of lethal injection.
"After three to four minutes, Dennis McGuire began gasping for breath, his stomach and chest were compressing deeply, he was making a snorting sound, almost a choking sound at times.
Douglas Berman, a professor at The Ohio State University and the Moritz College of Law, said in a telephone interview that such a suit would be "groundbreaking."
The family's concern that other people should not have to endure such treatment makes "a nice political statement," Berman said, but may not be enough to file a claim related to the fait accompli.
"What happened to Dennis McGuire is consistent with what a number of prominent medical experts said would happen," she said.
Dieter, who opposes the death penalty, called the event "an embarrassment" for Ohio, but acknowledged it was not clear whether the movements witnessed by Johnson and McGuire's relatives as well as relatives of the murdered woman were involuntary physical responses or a response to suffering.
But what happened Thursday was no experiment, a word that has a specific meaning among scientists, said Dr. Joel Zivot, assistant professor of anesthesiology and surgery at Emory University School of Medicine, who pointed out that he was not speaking for his employer.
The description of McGuire's final moments "sounds like suffering to me," he said.
The compounds used by Ohio are in short supply, and their diversion from use in treating people to use in execution is questionable, he said.
But the medicalization of the procedure has been perfunctory, he said in a telephone interview, noting that neither of the two drugs used on McGuire appears to have been tested in animals for lethality.
"And prison guards are actually trained to shoot guns; they're not trained to shoot drugs -- and the equipment is cheaper, too."