"I had the striking and devastating fear that someone had somehow discovered what I was planning to do, and reported me for it," Rodger wrote toward the end of a 137-page account of his life.
So disturbed that someone from a mental health agency, after consulting with one of Rodger's relatives, requested police check on his welfare April 30, Brown said.
Brown said Rodger told deputies it was a misunderstanding and that he was not going to hurt anyone or himself.
There was nothing in his behavior to suggest he was violent, and the deputies "determined he did not meet the criteria for an involuntary hold," Brown said.
"Thankfully, all suspicion of me was dropped after I took down the videos from Youtube, and the police never came back."
It started at his own home in Isla Vista, near the scenic beaches of Southern California.
Hong and Chen were "listed on the lease for the apartment as tenants, along with Rodger," the Sheriff's Office said.
Minutes later, Rodger sprayed bullets at the house from across the street, Brown said.
"I saw a gunshot wound to her abdomen, also one to her side and one through her head."
By the end of the night, two of the three young women had died -- Katherine Cooper, 22, and Veronika Weiss, 19.
Rodger then zoomed around town in a black BMW, stopping at a delicatessen where he shot and killed Christopher Martinez, another UC Santa Barbara student.
He shot at two people on the sidewalk, pulled a handgun on a woman and fired some more, Brown said.
I jumped on the sidewalk and I see a man on a BMW, his body inside the windshield and glass broken everywhere.
By the time the melee was over, six victims were dead, 13 were injured, and a quiet beachfront community was left to wonder how this could happen -- and whether anyone could have prevented it.
It's unclear what Rodger might have done had he not wrecked his car.
Rodger suffered from an undisclosed mental health issue and was under the care of a variety of health care professionals, Brown said.
In the manuscript of his life's story, Rodger often mentioned feeling slighted or inferior, such as when he was denied entry on an amusement park ride at age 6 while other boys his age got to go on.
"Little did I know, this injustice was very small indeed compared to all the things I'll be denied in the future because of my height."
"All of those beautiful girls I've desired so much in my life, but can never have because they despise and loathe me, I will destroy.
It is only fair."