Boehner said that he'd set aside the "Hastert Rule" -- that Republicans would only bring measures up for a vote if they are backed by a majority of their caucus -- and rely on Democrats to pass a measure to raise the nation's debt limit, said the House member.
The Ohio Republican's vow comes exactly two weeks before the government is set to run out of money to cover its roughly $16.7 trillion debt, unless Congress agrees to lift the so-called debt ceiling.
Boehner himself wrote earlier this week in USA Today that "there is no way Congress can or should pass (a debt ceiling hike) without spending cuts and reforms to deal with the debt and deficit and help get our economy moving again."
The two sides appeared no closer to an agreement Thursday, the third day of the shutdown that comes because Congress failed to agree on a budget plan to send to President Barack Obama.
Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid was part of the Democratic chorus Thursday, accusing Boehner of reneging on an agreement to let the House vote on a "clean" spending package of $988 billion, $70 billion less than Democrats wanted).
Boehner went back on that deal, Reid surmised in an interview with CNN's Dana Bash, because he feared fellow Republicans would turn on him and oust him from his position as House speaker.
While Grimm and a few other moderate Republicans have backed a "clean" spending bill without anti-Obamacare provisions, some of his colleagues in the House say the party won't budge from their strategy.
Meanwhile, two moderate House members -- one Republican and one Democrat -- proposed a compromise Thursday that would fund the government for six months while eliminating a tax on medical devices in the health care reforms.
A chase that began at a White House security checkpoint ended near the U.S. Capitol Hill when authorities opened fire on a car containing a woman and a child, an intelligence source told CNN.
Then they resumed their normal business -- which, if the past few weeks is any indication, meant more blame and little agreement on how to bring the government back on line.