But Willimon, 35, is willing to talk about plenty of other things: the show's Emmy nominations -- including best drama -- the value of power, the balance between idealism and cynicism and who some of his models are.
The Oscar-nominated producer and playwright (his "Farragut North" was turned into the George Clooney film "Ides of March") talked to CNN last week.
But a number of my friends, including my best friend, Jay Carson, who is a political consultant on the show, were in the upper tiers and really knew what was going on.
That's an extreme version, but in the history of humanity, a lot of heads have rolled in order for people to ascend to the throne.
And that power is displayed in our love lives, or our work environments, the way we comport ourselves when randomness brushes up against us.
But I think the differentiation he's drawing is what the end goal is.
And then you see people like Francis who don't deny the importance of money, but that's not the reason he gets up in the morning.
Where I think people mistake his optimism for cynicism is that he's unapologetically self-interested.
When you have both parties who will not find ways to compromise, who won't meet in the middle, you have paralysis.
I'm going to find ways -- whether it's through persuasion or seduction or intimidation or blackmail, whatever my tactics are -- to make sure everyone moves forward.
One of the comments we often get is people root for Francis because he actually gets things done.
When I watch the show, and Francis talks about "looking weak," I'd be the person he's talking about.
I think he sees an intransigent belief system as a form of cowardice because it dictates your behavior for you.
Conflict always makes for a good story, and stories that interest people will always rise to the top of the headlines.
I knew we had 26 hours, and there were things I could lay into the very beginning of season 1 that wouldn't boomerang back to the very end of season 2.
I don't necessarily say he's a model for me -- there are aspects of the way he conducted business that I find admirable and others I find abhorrent.
The ability to make documentaries that are not only so epic and thorough and artful, but have them reach mainstream audiences -- I find it to be not short of miraculous.
You'll have to watch and see.