He repeated his longstanding call for the wealthy to pay more in taxes, including a specific proposal for millionaires to have a tax rate of 30%.
2010: Obama criticizes the Supreme Court for a recent campaign finance ruling that he said "will open the floodgates for special interests, including foreign corporations, to spend without limit in our elections."
2008: President George W. Bush uses his final State of the Union address to call for a quick shot in the arm for the economy in "a period of uncertainty" and touts progress in the war in Iraq.
2007: Bush addresses a joint session of Congress for the first time in which Democrats control both chambers, having won them in the previous year's midterm elections.
Bush also puts forth a wish list to extend health insurance coverage, reduce gasoline consumption by 20% over 10 years, limit greenhouse gas emissions and create a temporary worker program to address illegal immigration.
He also renews his call for a guest worker program for immigrants, defends the NSA warrantless surveillance program, urges Congress to make his first-term tax cut laws permanent and asks for line-item veto power.
He ticks through a number of proposals including some proposed by Democrats, saying "all these ideas are on the table."
Many members of Congress have their fingers dipped in ink in support of Iraqi voters who went to the polls despite the threat of violence.
2004: Bush makes what many call a veiled reference to the 2004 presidential race the day after Democratic Sen. John Kerry's victory in the Iowa caucuses: "We have faced serious challenges together, and now we face a choice: We can go forward with confidence and resolve, or we can turn back to the dangerous illusion that terrorists are not plotting and outlaw regimes are no threat to us.
Many broadcasts use a split screen to show both the announcement of the verdicts and the Republican response by Rep. J.C. Watts.
He says Americans had a "unique responsibility to do the hard work of freedom."
He goes on to say, "What is at stake is more than one small country; it is a big idea: a new world order.
1986: Reagan had planned to mention teacher-in-space Christa McAuliffe during his address, but the speech is postponed when the Space Shuttle Challenger explodes after launch that morning, killing McAuliffe and six others.
1964: Johnson pledges to continue much of the work begun by President John F. Kennedy, who had been assassinated two months before.
1944: Ill after an overseas trip, President Franklin Roosevelt delivers his State of the Union as a "fireside chat" on the radio instead of before a joint session of Congress.
1862: With the Civil War not yet a year old, President Abraham Lincoln calls for the emancipation of the slaves.