You can take one home to your son,'" Knight said in an interview broadcast Tuesday on the syndicated "Dr. Phil" talk show.
And it wasn't long, Knight said, before he trapped her in an upstairs room and tied her up with an extension cord.
She was the first of three women he would capture and imprison in his home for about a decade.
Knight, Berry and the third woman, Gina DeJesus, have since been trying to readjust to life as free women.
Her interview with "Dr. Phil," which began airing Tuesday and is set to continue Wednesday, provides a detailed glimpse into some of the horrors she suffered and her struggle to survive.
Knight told McGraw she sometimes spent days in the basement, chained to the pole, unable to lie down and with a motorcycle helmet over her head.
She said she was in shock after being taken and all she could do was cry and beg him to let her go back to her son.
"He took a pipe and he held it ... over my head, and he said, 'If you scream, I'll ram this down your throat and I'll kill you,'" Knight recalled, describing what she said was Castro's response after she used a pair of pliers and a wire cutter to remove a chain around her neck.
Castro, she said, would tell her of his plans to abduct other women and also implied he'd done it before.
"When we did, it was like a quick hug and 'bye,' because he wouldn't let us stay in the same room for that long," she said.
She has suffered vision loss, joint and muscle damage, and other problems from her time in captivity.
And she said Castro once punched her in the stomach with a barbell when he learned she was pregnant.
During Knight's time in captivity, her case got less media attention than the disappearances of Berry and DeJesus, whose family members posted fliers and held candlelight vigils for them.
Knight told McGraw that her son was taken away after her mother's boyfriend abused him.
In the interview, Knight also gave a glimpse into what she described as a troubled childhood before her abduction, which she said was why she didn't want to see her mother after she was released.
In response, her mother, Barbara Knight, issued a statement to the "Dr. Phil" show.
Her point of view has been altered by that monster and what he did to her," the statement said.
I pray that someday she will heal enough to know that again."