But researching my book, "Field Guide to Meat," led me to expand my repertoire to tasty, if less familiar, cuts like hanger steak and tri-tip.
Columbus first brought cattle to the New World, and by 1690, descendants of Columbus' cattle ranging in Mexico were driven north and became known as Texas Longhorns.
More than 90 percent of the beef we buy originates in America, while most of the rest is Canadian bred.
• Grain-finished: Nearly 75 percent of U.S. beef comes from cattle fattened on grain (usually corn) for three to six months in feedlots.
Their meat is lower in saturated fat, cholesterol, and calories than grain-finished.
The concentrated, intense flavor of dry-aged beef develops as it hangs in special temperature- and humidity-controlled rooms from 10 days to six weeks.
Retailers refrigerated the boxes until needed, then opened the package and cut the meat into portions for sale.
• Fat content: The USDA defines "lean beef" as having less than 10 grams (g) of total fat, 4.5g or less of saturated fat, and less than 95 milligrams of cholesterol per 3½-ounce serving (100g) of cooked beef.
For larger cuts, allow the fat to baste the meat while cooking, then trim away before eating, or skim it from the surface of braised dishes or stews.
• Inspection and grading: USDA inspectors examine all live animals and beef shipped out of state, which encompasses most of today's supermarket beef.
Only three percent is highly marbled Prime, sought after by top steak houses and butcher shops.
• Private labels: Supermarket chains and large food distributors also have developed private brands with their own specifications.
Organic cattle must be fed 100-percent organically and without antibiotics or hormones.
And when the fat cooks away, lean cuts provide more meat for your dollar.
Advice to buy a side or quarter of beef may seem sensible, but you'll likely have more meat than you can store.
Such a purchase may yield what one buyer describes as "cheap steak and expensive hamburger."