Video from the patrol car of North Charleston's Michael Slager shows an initial traffic stop and early interactions between the officer and Scott.
The passenger's identity was not given in a police report obtained by CNN, but another officer responding to the incident said in the report that the passenger was detained and placed in the back seat of a police vehicle.
He had a bench warrant issued against him for failure to pay at the time he was stopped by Slager.
Many questions remain about what happened on Saturday when Officer Slager pulled Scott over for what police have said was a broken taillight.
But a witness who shot cell phone video of the incident says he never saw Scott try to get Slager's Taser.
It seemed to Santana that Scott was trying to get away and avoid being zapped with the Tasered again.
She saw Scott and Slager at the entrance to a vacant lot.
But Santana has said fear for his own life almost kept him from revealing the tape.
"I ... thought about erasing the video," Santana told MSNBC's "All in With Chris Hayes" in an interview that aired Wednesday evening.
Later in the video, when the officer approaches Scott's body, he drops a dark object next to the man.
Scott's shooting stirred memories of the Michael Brown case in Ferguson, Missouri, where an unarmed black teenager was killed by a white police officer.
But not everyone agreed that Scott's case is like Brown's or that race was a factor.
"I have watched the video, and I was sickened by what I saw," North Charleston police Chief Eddie Driggers told reporters Wednesday.
Summey said that the city has ordered an additional 150 body cameras "so every officer on the street" in the city will have one.
The makeup of the city's Police Department is unclear, though it's been widely reported that 2007 federal figures indicated it was about 80% black.
When Scott's brother Anthony saw the video, he was convinced Slager's account of what happened was not true, he told CNN.
To  Anthony Scott, the videotape shows his brother was "running for his life" away from the officer.
"He cared about his family and ... no matter what happens, it will not replace my son."