This is a tiny five-megapixel camera that clips onto your clothes and does the work for you, automatically taking two photos every minute when turned on.
The doodle-friendly placemats feature scenes from several top cities, including Paris and New York, and come alone or with four dry-erase markers so kids can wipe off their work and start over again.
Jotting down your travel-related musings is made less choresome by this luxurious notebook, which has a goatskin cover and ultra-thin pages.
The wireless version ($99.95) syncs with your smart phone or other Bluetooth-enabled device.
This is the world's first 25-frame-a-second, 4K (very high resolution) wearable camcorder, worn on any part of the body and operated with a separate control panel.
By burning a few sticks inside, enough electricity is generated to charge multiple electronic devices, while you heat water, grill some burgers or sear some s'mores.
This clever piece of kit eliminates 99.9% of bacteria from water in just 48 seconds.
These binoculars claim to offer the best light transmission on the market, which means you'll still get great vision on the cloudiest of days.
Made from white gold and featuring the same B found on your Bentley Mulsanne gear lever (if you own one), even the case is impressive -- a reassuringly solid box designed to fit perfectly into the center console of your Bentley.
Kelly Carter's new book dishes advice on everything from prepping your pooch for a trek to the beach (yes, they should wear sunscreen) to finding the most Fido-friendly hotels, restaurants, parks and more in 75 cities across North America.
It's part of the company's Guaranteed on Board program, ensuring acceptance on Delta, Southwest and most other major airlines.
This iPhone case protects your precious cellphone, yes, but it also features a slide-out drawer outfitted with a mirror, tweezers, bottle opener, stylus, screwdriver, USB drive, mini LED light and even a pair of scissors.
Her the cross-shaped Emmett case is lovely, but if you're an imaginative traveler with money to burn, her bespoke service is the easiest way to guarantee your luggage stands out.
This towel was reportedly developed for military use, made from a woven polyurethane material that sand won't stick to.
A bottle of gin isn't the only thing inside this leather bag -- you also get a hip flask and a cashmere and silk scarf.
The case comes with a built-in, 20-watt amplifier, a pop-up lectern and two microphones.