Washington (CNN) -- Mo Elleithee was a senior spokesman for Hillary Clinton's 2008 presidential campaign but he says his new job as communications director for the Democratic National Committee has nothing to do with his former boss' plans for 2016.
Since starting on the job Friday, Elleithee has already hit the cable circuit, appearing on CNN's "State of the Union with Candy Crowley" and MSNBC's "Hardball with Chris Matthews."
We're doing it on a bunch of different levels, with the communications shop providing communications assistance, but also at the organizing level, helping state parties do the same.
But two, you have to remember, OFA is a non-political entity, and so the DNC is still the place to be for political organizing on the Democratic side and I think everybody is committed to seeing that continue to happen.
When it comes to money are there concerns that you won't have the cash to do what you need to do and how will you retire that debt?
We are going to have what we need to accomplish our goals this cycle, but we're still working to retire that debt and Democrats can help us out by going to Democrats.Org and giving what they can.
We want to win seats in the House and we want to win governorships.
I think there are going to be a lot of competitive races.
And based on what I'm seeing I think we feel comfortable that we can pick up seats in the House.
Q: There's speculation, because of your role in Hillary Clinton's 2008 presidential campaign, that this was part of some grand design to have someone from Hillary World take over communications at the DNC in advance of a possible second Clinton bid for the White House.
You know, 2016 will come soon enough, but before I came here to the DNC I was among those getting incredibly frustrated by the fact there was so much attention paid to 2016 when we've got a lot of work to do before then.
Folks need to start laying the groundwork for 2016 but there's more important stuff to do now electorally as well as helping the president pass his agenda and that's why I'm here."