Honor Blackman, star of the James Bond film "Goldfinger," poses on an Aston Martin DB5 car in 2002.
But perhaps less well known is the original coast-to-coast sprint run undertaken by speed racer Erwin George Baker in 1914.
The film is a stock car- and violence-infused tale that features for a quarter of its run-time a fantastic chase sequence involving a stripped down bad-ass 1969 Dodge Charger and a heavily modified 1970 Dodge Challenger with a girl -- actress and former stuntwoman Zoe Bell -- splayed on its hood.
The friend informed him that a decent movie stunt team could easily "death proof" any car for him.
Car chases ostensibly over a half mile, otherwise known as street racing, received attention when "The Fast and Furious" lifted the lid on a high-adrenaline Tokyo Drift racing scene that burgeoned in popularity in Japan and the U.S. in the late 1990s.
Tokyo Drift racing, where drivers work in teams while skidding all four wheels around a tight circuit, now features at many events on the IRL circuit, catching a tailwind from the movie's popularity.
You'd be hard pressed to name any of Mel Gibson's cobbled-together vehicles in his 1981 sequel to "Mad Max" -- which may boast the highest number of chopped and recharged V8s outside of Havana, Cuba -- but that doesn't stop "The Road Warrior" being considered a car-chase classic and one of the best action movies out there.
A Dodge Challenger R/T gives you some serious leverage when you're involved in a bump-and-run two-car contest on a one-track road in the middle of the American west -- and it's the only road out of the desert heat.
Dodge released its highly anticipated and heavily retrofitted Challenger update in 2008, with the film's cult following no doubt waiting patiently for any word on a commemorative "Vanishing Point" model.
Few, though, compare to the film's famous 1973 Ford Mustang Mach 1, christened "Eleanor" and driven by Halicki.
Director William Friedkin also put together a similarly fantastic car chase in 1985's "To Live and Die in L.A."
Michael Caine's famous "You're only supposed to blow the bloody doors off," has become a familiar refrain among "Italian Job" fans who love the British actor's Cockney twang and the 1969 comic car caper that saw a collection of car thieves attempting a high-stakes bank heist in the Italian city of Turin.
Although it will never be regarded as Robert de Niro's best dramatic performance, 1998's "Ronin" doesn't land on our list for its dialogue.
There are few actors that can capture the mixture of terror and exhilaration involved in a car chase quite like De Niro, while Jean Reno is the only actor who could make driving a Peugeot an exercise in steely manhood.
In the 1968 classic, real-life racing enthusiast Steve McQueen barrels after bad guys on the streets of San Francisco in an epically cool 1968 Ford Mustang in a delicious "Highland Green" color.
This is a must-see film and hands-down the best car chase movie of all time.