In the mid-March chill Thursday, the victims and their stories continued to emerge as firefighters ferreted through the piles of bricks and wreckage on the East Harlem block where a powerful explosion and fire leveled two buildings.
Another victim, Griselde Camacho, 44, was a public safety officer at the Hunter College Silberman School of Social Work in East Harlem, the school's website said.
"Our deepest sympathies go out to her family, and we are committed to doing everything we can to support them in their time of great emotional need.
"Many of us share fond memories on how they have blessed our lives with their warm smiles and caring natures.
My staff has taken it hard... She was solid as a rock, never got flustered.
Though authorities have said a gas leak may have triggered the explosion, Mayor Bill de Blasio told reporters Thursday that the official cause was under investigation.
Near 116th Street and Park Avenue, once the heart of New York's large Puerto Rican community, firefighters tore at mounds of bricks in a search for survivors from the collapsed five-story buildings, which housed a piano store and an evangelical church, in addition to apartments.
On Thursday, Con Edison officials said the utility received a call reporting a gas leak around 9:13 a.m. Wednesday from a resident at one of the newer buildings on Park Avenue.
Fire officials said they received no reports of gas leaks in the area in the last month, while police reported receiving no calls since 2010.
Sumwalt said the agency was "operating under the assumption that a natural gas leak led to an explosion," but that his team of investigators had not yet examined the crater where the buildings once stood.
A building department official said one of the two Park Avenue buildings that collapsed received a city permit last year for the installation of 120 feet of gas piping.
In 2008, owners of the adjacent building, which also collapsed, were fined for failing to maintain vertical cracks in the rear of the building.
Once a predominantly Italian neighborhood, the stretch of East Harlem saw a large influx of Puerto Ricans in the 1950s.
In the 1990s, many Mexican immigrants began to move into the area, which has been gentrified in recent years, with many mom-and-pop shops replaced by restaurants and bars.