When it comes to college basketball, the first month of spring ushers in a frantic slew of games to determine seedings for one of the most fervently watched sporting events in the U.S., known simply as the NCAA Tournament, or more often, March Madness.
His last-second shot for Valparaiso to beat the University of Mississippi in the first round of the 1998 tournament is one of the most replayed moments in March Madness history.
For God to bless (me) with both of things at one time is something that I'll always cherish and remember," Drew says.
Although Drew says private workouts for pro teams solidified his spot as the first Valparaiso player to be drafted in the NBA's first round (as the 16th pick,) he confesses that tournament attention is likely what got his foot in the door.
Michael Beasley, the second overall selection in the 2008 NBA draft, is one of Karnes' clients who has failed to live up to that pressure so far.
Karnes, a former player himself at little-known Belmont University who "had the unfortunate assignment of having to guard Bryce Drew," says he enjoys recruiting clients from smaller programs because they lack the air of entitlement that can weigh on household names.
Hayward led Butler -- a so-called "mid-major" program that exited the Horizon League two years ago -- all the way to the 2010 National Championship Game against Duke, only to watch his desperation half-court shot narrowly miss at the buzzer.
"Even though they are so wildly successful as a team (now,) Butler right before that wasn't well known," says Karnes, adding that it was Hayward who first put it on the map.
Led by 6-foot-10-inch Jamaican senior Vashil Fernandez (five blocked shots against Green Bay in the Horizon League tournament final) and 6' 9" sophomore Alec Peters, the Crusaders are hoping for a high seed when a 10-member committee meets this "Selection Sunday" to rank the tournament's 68 participants.
While Karnes remains guarded about which college basketball players he's scouting, inking deals with Kentucky players after the tournament is probably a longshot.