David Winner, who wrote "Brilliant Orange," a study of how Dutch culture and psyche contributed to the influence their football visionaries have had on the game, argues England's approach to football has not changed for over half a century.
For him, the attritional modus operandi showcased by England during Sunday's morale-sapping defeat to a far more fluent Italy side shows the national game is still weighed down by this regressive approach.
This then infiltrated the nation's best-loved game, reinforcing the idea of a "warrior" culture, when grit and determination were valued over technical skill.
The tabloids talk about our players as soldiers, so the values that are very highly praised in English football are bravery, passion, obedience, hard work and you don't tend to hear that much talk about creativity and inspiration, which are not soldierly virtues."
Hope can be extracted from two titans of Europe, Spain and Germany, both of whom radically revamped their approach to the game in the last 15 years.
During his stint as manager of Barcelona, Cruyff's doctrine permeated the club, and he played a key role in the establishment of its "La Masia" youth academy that has produced so many gifted players that now make up the backbone for the national team.
Their past triumphs in both competitions -- Germany can boast three titles in each tournament -- were conducted in a manner far removed from the way the current side operate, with skilful and exciting players like Mesut Ozil and Thomas Muller at their forefront.
One of the reasons they identified was the coaching wasn't up to scratch anymore.
The English Premier League is regularly described as the best, most exciting league in the world, borne out by the record amounts of money broadcasters pay to televise it.
Prior to England's humiliating 4-1 defeat to Germany in the second round of the 2010 World Cup, the FA embarked on a process to develop a new philosophy for how the national game should be played, and it has subsequently made changes to the way youngsters are coached.
He and his colleagues are trying to mesh the traditional English "warrior" style with the more cultured flavor of Spain and Germany, in order to produce players who are comfortable in any type of match situation.
In the meantime, until any of these changes take hold, perhaps the best thing for English fans to do is lower expectations and prepare for an immediate future laden with modest returns.
They qualify for tournaments almost always.