The main "downs" of buying a used car are that it's a used car, not new -- so there's no new car warranty and you are more vulnerable to used car problems that could cost you money, as well as aggravation.
(Important: Be sure to confirm the used car warranty is fully transferable.)
You can find information about recalls and safety-related defects at the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration's Web site (www.nhtsa.dot.gov), and information about consumer satisfaction at JD Power & Associates (see www.jdpower.com/cc/index.jsp ).
If the dealer refuses to permit this, you should consider yourself well warned -- and walk away.
If the used car records are not available, you should be suspicious.
Lastly, jot down the Vehicle Identification Number (VIN): Located on a stamped plate on the top of the used cars dashboard, and run a CARFAX Vehicle History report to check for used car deal-killers such as evidence of a prior accident, odometer fraud, manufacturer "buy back" (a lemon) and so on.
In addition to a well-earned reputation for high quality and durability, Corollas are among the safest cars in this class -- and offer features such as antilock brakes and side-impact air bags (on newer models).
As used cars, they continue to perform flawlessly -- without giving their owners high blood pressure years after other luxury makes become expensive money pits.
Ford Crown Victoria/Mercury Marquis -- These six-passenger sedans are hugely roomy and immensely rugged (one reason they're favored as police cars/taxis/limos) and very safe -- consistent 5 Star performers in government/insurance industry crash testing.
Toyota 4Runner -- Considered by serious off-road drivers to be one of the best vehicles for this job (due to its agility, suspension and comparatively narrow body), the 4Runner consistently scores well when it comes to long-term durability and used car resale value, too.
Excellent used car resale value and top of its class occupant protection are additional reasons to consider an Odyssey.
Siennas are offered in a variety of configurations, including models with full-time all-wheel-drive (AWD).