(Mental Floss) -- Investigators are trying to figure out whether the financial fraud allegedly perpetrated by Bernard L. Madoff was, in fact, the largest Ponzi scheme in history.
After arriving in the U.S. from Italy in 1903, Ponzi knocked around in a variety of unskilled jobs that usually ended when he got into trouble for theft or cheating customers.
At the time, it was common for letters abroad to include an international reply coupon -- a voucher that could be exchanged for minimum postage back to the country from which the letter was sent.
You only had to purchase postal reply coupons cheaply in some foreign country, send them back to the U.S. to swap them out for American stamps of a higher value, then sell these stamps.
Investors would pay their cash in, and sure enough, Ponzi would get them the promised return.
Ponzi's underlying "business" -- the arbitrage on the postal coupons -- wasn't actually as sound as he claimed.
However, since so much money was flowing in from new investors, he could just pay off the returns for the old ones from the new cash.
While Barron conceded that there probably was a way for a person to make a small amount of quick cash on the postal reply coupon scheme, he figured that Ponzi would have to be moving 160 million coupons around to raise the cash he needed to support the business.
Barron pointed out the obvious question here: if Ponzi had this failsafe scheme in which he could make a 50 percent profit, why was he putting his own money into plain old investment instruments that would give him (maybe) a 5 percent return?
In fact, the morning that the Post ran Barron's report, investors lined up around the block outside of his office in an attempt to give him more money -- even after they'd been told that they'd been scammed.
He can hardly add...He sits with his feet on the desk smoking expensive cigars in a diamond holder and talking complete gibberish about postal coupons."
Since Ponzi had used the mail to notify his marks of how their "investments" were performing, he faced serious mail fraud charges; in total, the government brought 86 charges against him in two separate indictments.
Upon his release, Ponzi was deported to Italy and spent the rest of his life in poverty before dying in 1949 in Rio de Janeiro, where he's buried in a pauper's grave.
All rights reserved.