The Civil War, in addition to being among the defining moments of U.S. history, is also the source of some bizarre and surprisingly cool trivia.
"...But for your race among us there could not be war...It is better for us both, therefore, to be separated."
One of the first attempts was on Île à Vache, a.k.a.
In January 1864, the Navy rescued the survivors from the ripoff colony.
The Confederacy's image hinged on the notion that the rebellious states made up a unified, stable nation.
Hungry protesters, most of whom were women, led a march "to see the governor" in April 1863 that quickly turned violent.
The Union Army Balloon Corps got no respect from military officials, and Lowe resigned when he was assigned to serve, at a lower pay grade, under the director of the Army Corps of Engineers.
In contrast, the paddle-powered Alligator submarine saw exactly zero days of combat (which is why it can't officially be called the U.S.S.
A few months after the loss of the Alligator, the CSA launched their own submarine, the H.L.
The Hunley attacked and sank the U.S.S.
Before and during the war, the song was a huge hit in New York and across the country, and quickly became one of Abraham Lincoln's favorite tunes.
The day after the Surrender at Appomattox, Lincoln told a crowd of Northern revelers, "I have always thought 'Dixie' was one of the best tunes I have ever heard.
Paul was promoted to Lieutenant Colonel in September, 1862, shortly before he was wounded in the brutal Battle of Antietam (a.k.a.
By the following year, Paul was promoted again to Colonel, leading the 20th Massachusetts at Chancellorsville and, in his final days, at Gettysburg.
At least, that's what he claimed in "The Private History of a Campaign that Failed," a semi-fictional short story published in 1885, after The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn, but before A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court.
However, his grief is slightly eased by the realization that six men had fired their guns, and only one had been able to hit the moving target.
Hundreds of women on both sides pulled a Mulan, assuming male identities and appearances so that they might fight for their respective nations.
So it should come as no surprise that many of these women kept up their aliases long after the war had ended, some even to the grave.