But Karen Kraushaar, one of the women who have made allegations, told CNN Tuesday night that Cain is a "serial denier."
At a news conference he held to respond to the latest accusation, made Monday by Sharon Bialek, a Chicago woman who once worked at the restaurant group, Cain described her as a "troubled" woman put up to making false allegations by forces trying to derail his presidential bid.
In addition, Bennett challenged Cain's contention that he was unable to remember what Kraushaar had accused him of doing 12 years earlier.
Kraushaar said she would like to organize a joint press conference some time in the near future with some of the other women.
"A reputation that he has built over 40 years of being a good and decent man and a successful business person.
The woman, who spoke on condition of not being identified, said she spoke extensively with her friend about Cain's conduct in 1998 at the time the accuser was allegedly being harassed by Cain while both worked at the restaurant association.
If my son is saying it, I want to be the role model for him and other kids growing up."
She alleged that Cain groped her following a dinner in 1997, shortly after she was laid off by the restaurant association.
She didn't file a complaint at the time because she no longer worked for the association, said Bialek, who also denied wanting any money for going public, despite a bankruptcy stemming from costs related to her late mother's medical bills.
Bialek's bombshell came as Cain was in his second week of battling the sexual harassment allegations that have overwhelmed his front-running campaign for the Republican presidential nomination.
Mitt Romney atop the polls, and his campaign said it raised $2 million in the week since the sexual harassment accusations first surfaced in an October 30 report by Politico.
You don't go on a political stage and make these kinds of press conferences unless you really stand by your convictions," he said.
Cain, a favorite of tea party conservatives, has risen to the top of the polls after strong performances in several debates and the release of his "9-9-9" tax plan, which sets flat 9% rates for corporate and income taxes and creates a 9% national sales tax.
"He needs to be upfront, forthright and get this story behind him," said Bob Vander Plaats, a leading Iowa Republican activist.
"You cannot let this dominate the campaign," Vander Plaats said, a sentiment echoed by other analysts.
She told CNN Tuesday that Cain and the women should testify under oath.