However, the controversy this week over Republican Rep. Todd Akin's incendiary remarks on "legitimate" rape and pregnancy has dominated the political chatter and raised questions about whether the conservative Christian from suburban St. Louis can unseat vulnerable Democratic Sen. Claire McCaskill in Missouri.
He called for states to have control over drilling on federal land within their borders; opening new offshore areas to energy development; starting a fast-track approval process for energy projects including nuclear power, and limiting the ability of environmental groups to file lawsuits.
Obama has touted increased oil production in recent years, and also opened up new areas for drilling in the Gulf of Mexico and indicated he'll issue permits to drill in the Arctic.
The administration has repeatedly defended its decision to invest in renewable energy companies, noting that energy from wind and solar projects have doubled since Obama took office.
The event came a day after a new CBO report outlined the potentially dismal impact of the impending "fiscal cliff" that includes the expiration of the Bush tax cuts and mandatory reductions in government spending, including defense outlays.
At the White House, Carney said a quick solution to the issue would come if Republicans ease their rigid opposition to ending tax cuts for wealthy Americans.
Brown, assistant director of Quinnipiac University Polling Institute, wrote in a statement accompanying the polls' release that Romney's choice of Ryan has made "small difference" so far in the race.
With a potential hurricane possibly heading toward Tampa, Florida, the site of the Republican convention scheduled to begin Monday, GOP officials made clear Thursday that Romney would be nominated as the party's presidential candidate next week regardless of whether the storm disrupts proceedings.
According to the latest forecast map from the National Hurricane Center in Miami, the storm -- named Isaac -- will pass near the Florida Keys early Monday as a Category 1 hurricane and northwest of Tampa by Monday evening.
In the ad, Clinton attempts to draw a contrast between Republicans and Democrats as the November election approaches.
In his stump speeches, Obama frequently credits Clinton-era policies for the strong economy in the 1990s.