A creaky metal cot and a rusting wood-burning stove is all the comfort Herbert Hale says he needs.
Firewood is stacked in one corner inside, and more outside as Hale uses the summer months to stockpile for prairie winters, where 20 below zero is not all that uncommon.
"I have to be careful," Hale says matter-of-factly as he pulls a few fistfuls.
He says he gets a check for just shy of $17 every week from a tribal welfare fund, and tries to find odd jobs to pay for his food and to help out a diabetic sister.
A few more twists and, "It's about 42 to 43 miles, someplace around there."
"It is bad," he says of the area's economic plight, walking a visitor through the gravel streets where many residents, idle because of the lack of jobs, are sitting out front or shout out a greeting from inside their small homes.
He highlights a bright spot: A building in the community converted to a makeshift classroom and library where residents can get tutoring help and then take the GED --- the high school equivalency exam.
In Eagle Butte, the largest community on the reservation, a bustling construction site is a new source of pride.
"At this point I am very appreciative of what we have received," Joseph Brings Plenty, the elected tribal chairman, says when we ask if the stimulus funding is enough.
"I can sympathize, empathize, with the demands, with the pressures that are on his shoulders, on his plate and put in front of him," Brings Plenty said during a break from a Tribal Council meeting.
To be clear, Chairman Brings Plenty and Bryce In the Woods say not all of the tribe's problems rest with the federal government.
"I think there is a stereotype out there that all tribes have casinos and that's not true."
The temperature neared 100 degrees on the day of our visit, yet Hale's wood stove was warm to the touch.
Often no cars ... A few times I felt like falling asleep on the road.
He's extra careful because he recently broke its glass chimney, so the flame burns without protection from the winds that can pick up suddenly.
On the odd jobs in town, $1 here and $5 there adds up -- not too much, but his goals are modest.
That's as good as you need.