Washington (CNN) -- In less than a month, the government may shut down.
Well, if you're not, you should be.
By October 1 -- the deadline to keep funding everything in the government from the IRS to the Army -- you'll probably hear the term hundreds of times in news articles and out of the mouths of commentators and pundits.
And the one key duty laid out in the Constitution for Congress is to pass spending bills that fund the government.
It is a bill that sidesteps the lengthy budget process and funds the government for a specified period of time.
That worked for a few years but then Congress settled into the new schedule and, like any high school student -- or journalist on deadline -- it procrastinated.
Often, a CR is a simple legislative extension to accommodate lawmakers who don't get their work done.
Congress "recognizes one of their leverages is the power of the purse," Ellis said, adding that politicization of the budget process has become more polarized during the Obama administration.
This year, a core group of conservative Republicans in the House wants to tie the entire $986 billion annual operating budget to a provision to defund the health care law known as Obamacare.
Since 2011, they have used budget battles -- and taken the country to the edge of government shutdown -- to extract $2.3 trillion from federal spending.
While politics seem particularly bad during these times, it's important to remember that the government hasn't actually shut down under this Congress or this president.
It often takes intense negotiating between the two chambers of Congress and the president.
And even though the Senate finally passed a budget -- it did so in March after the House acted -- leaders in both chambers couldn't agree to start the process of combining their versions into a final bill.
Jim Manley, a former aide to Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid said the budget encapsulates Washington.
House Republican leaders are well aware of the political risks of threatening to shut down the government.
The next fight will be over the debt ceiling -- permitting the government to borrow more money to pay off its past spending debts.
But that's a different story for a different day.