Round one ended when I had a dream about a spicy chicken sandwich from Wendy's, and then woke up to march zombie-style to that fast-food restaurant to order it.
But I have been thinking in recent weeks about our relationships with animals and what our diets mean for the health of the environment.
It started while I was doing research for a story on illegal animal trafficking, and I was reading books, including Dana Goodyear's "Anything that Moves" -- about how the American foodie scene is trending toward the bizarre and endangered (witness the 2010 bust of a California restaurant serving whale) -- and Jonathan Safran Foer's "Eating Animals," which argues, in part, that one cannot eat meat and also earnestly claim to be an environmentalist.
As one of my Facebook friends was smart to point out, it's probably not a good idea to be in the business of telling people "what they are or are not."
Animal rights aside, there are plenty to consider.
An equivalent amount of bread requires only 1,300 liters of water; bananas use 860; and tomatoes consume just 180 liters, or about 1% of the water required for beef.
The same is true for land.
Animal agriculture pollutes the water: Last summer, like pretty much every summer, there was a "dead zone" in the Gulf of Mexico the size of Connecticut.
The amount of manure that animal farms create is also staggering -- U.S. federal agencies estimate livestock and poultry "generate" about 500 million tons of manure per year -- and has serious consequences for the health of rivers and groundwater.
Pork and chicken are better, creating about 2 pounds and half a  pound, respectively.
"If all Americans eliminated just one quarter-pound serving of beef per week, the reduction in global warming pollution would be equal to taking 4 to 6 million cars off the road," according to the Natural Resources Defense Council.
I travel frequently, and value flexibility, so I've never really wanted to be too strict about my diet in the long term.
To the minority of vegans and vegetarians who like to proselytize about their eating habits, I'm sure that seems like an annoying cop-out.
"Certainly there are modest steps we can all take that can really have a significant benefit if a lot of people did them," said Erik Olson, a health and food expert at NRDC, the environmental group.
And it's one that -- even for a day -- can have real impact.