The proposals are traditional conservative stances on domestic energy production, trade, job training, deficit reduction and boosting small businesses, with Romney promising that, if elected, he would deliver on them to unleash the full potential of the U.S. economy.
In Orlando, Florida, Obama attacked Romney's call for more tax cuts as an example of long-standing Republican policy that was most recently enacted by his predecessor, helping bring the recession that was in place when Obama took office.
In a format resembling a celebrity "roast" -- but one with blue blazers and verbal bouquets instead of vulgar put-downs -- the seated governors rose one-by-one to praise Romney.
In a hint that Romney's decision on a running mate might come soon, his longtime adviser Beth Myers, who heads up the campaign's search for a vice presidential candidate, will be traveling with Romney to Colorado.
Reviving the American dream of equal opportunity has been the central theme of Obama's campaign, and Romney's new five-point message Thursday was an effort to blunt the president's middle class outreach.
The tax component came under heavy criticism from Obama, who cited a study by the Urban Institute-Brookings Institution Tax Policy Center that says Romney's proposals would provide large cuts to the very wealthy while increasing the burden on the lower and middle classes.
However, Romney has yet to say which specific tax breaks he plans to eliminate, and the Tax Policy Center report indicated the result of his plan would force the tax burden to shift toward lower- and middle-class Americans.
Romney and Republicans want to extend all the Bush tax cuts for now to prevent any increase, while Obama says the lower rates should not continue for the wealthiest 2% of Americans to bring more fairness to the system.
In anticipation of Obama's Florida trip Thursday, the Romney campaign released a new ad in the state that blames the president for a stalling economy there.
"Let's get this straight -- the very person who argued for the U.S. auto industry to go bankrupt, something that would have caused more than a million jobs lost and utter economic devastation in the Midwest, is now trying to attack the president on how it was handled?"
Meanwhile, the liberal group MoveOn.org will run a 30-second television spot in battleground states mocking the amount of money spent on Rafalca, the dressage horse competing at the London Olympics that is co-owned by Romney's wife, Ann.
"There's nothing wrong with taking good care of a horse, but there's something messed up about a millionaire who spends twice what most Americans make in a year caring for a horse, but wants to take away people's health care and offshore their jobs," Justin Ruben wrote.