Now that Washington is seriously thinking about ordering limited missile strikes in one of the most volatile regions of the world, it's a good time to retrace events and remember how we got here.
It's not intended to be an all-encompassing encyclopedia, but it will bring you up to date on what's really important about a scary situation in an already volatile part of the world.
Sectarian and ethnic unrest shook Syria over the past decade, too.
It all started in February 2011 in the city of Daraa, when authorities arrested 15 schoolchildren for painting anti-government graffiti on the walls of a school.
Within days, according to Human Rights Watch, protests grew into massive rallies made up of thousands.
the city whose children sparked a national movement.
In a March 2011 speech before lawmakers, he said "conspirators" started out there and wanted to spread unrest.
Now, armed rebels have vowed to accept nothing less than al-Assad's ouster, while the Syrian government has labeled them terrorists and vowed not to back down.
If Syria uses chemical weapons in the civil war, the United States will have to do something.
Whatever it is, it's time to sit up and take notice, because this news story is moving to another level.
They say chemical weapons shouldn't be a turning point for the world to act.
In June, the United States said it would send the rebels small arms, ammunition and potentially anti-tank weapons.
The Syria rebels have promised U.S. and European officials that any military weaponry they get won't end up in extremists' hands.
Why are they criticizing the U.S.?
"Russia sees Syria as another test case for the West's appetite for intervention and views the danger of U.S. involvement as a direct threat to its own interests."
The al-Assad family is Alawite, a Shiite Muslim offshoot that's one of the minorities in a country that is nearly three-quarters Sunni.
In a worst-case scenario, experts say, the fighting could spill over and make trouble for Syria's neighbors, threatening stability in a part of the world that's already known to be volatile.
And when an entire region of the world loses stability, that worries the international community as a whole.
CNN's Nic Robertson, Thom Patterson, Joe Sterling, Barbara Starr, Chelsea J. Carter and Kyle Almond contributed to this report.