"I wanted it to be really what happened and what it was like every single day I was there, because I don't think I'm doing anyone any favors by sugarcoating it."
"I want them to know that these things do happen, but that doesn't mean that we have to be defined by it for the rest of your life.
"I mean, I felt like that was the safest place in the world for me, so waking up in the middle of the night in my own bedroom having this strange man standing over me, someone I didn't recognize, not only that but having a knife being held to my throat, I was terrified.
"And then I remember getting up and going with him, and then on the way through my house he bent over to my ear again and said 'If you make any sound, if you do anything that causes any attention or causes someone to come, I not only will kill you, but I will kill anyone who tries to stop me.'"
because, in my mind, I wanted my parents to know what had happened to me," she said.
And then we kept going and I remember we got a little further and I stopped him again and I said 'Well, don't you realize what you're doing, I mean, if you get caught you'll spend the rest of your life in prison?'
"I was terrified when I got to the camp, but the scariest thing about the camp was this woman," she said.
"The next nine months, my days consisted of being hungry, of being bored to death because he talked nonstop always about himself," she said.
"Every time I thought 'OK, this is rock bottom,' I mean, my pajamas have been taken away from me and I'm being forced to wear this nasty robe, the next thing I knew they'd say, 'We're going to have you go naked now,' or I had been forced to drink alcohol, which I had never done before," she told Cooper.
"You can never judge a child or a victim of any crime on what they should have done, because you weren't there and you don't know and you have no right just to sit in your armchair at home and say 'Well, why didn't you escape?
What was to say that he wouldn't kill me when he'd make those threats to me?
The second half of Smart's interview with Cooper, in which she reveals details of how she was rescued, will air on CNN's "Anderson Cooper 360" Tuesday night.