Boston (CNN)After weeks of dramatic testimony, jurors are set to begin deliberations Tuesday in the trial of Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, who faces life in prison or  the death penalty for working with his brother to explode bombs at the 2013 Boston Marathon.
Dzhokhar Tsarnaev "chose a day when the eyes of the world would be on Boston," Chakravarty said.
The day of the bombings, Chakravarty said, "they felt they were soldiers.
That part of the trial will include evidence of aggravating and mitigating factors, and the jury will be asked to weigh elements that make this crime especially heinous against details from Tsarnaev's background and mental health history that would weigh in his favor.
"He was there," defense attorney Judy Clarke conceded as the trial opened, but the defense strategy always had been to focus on persuading the jury to spare Tsarnaev's life.
"These children weren't innocent to him," the prosecutor said.
The brothers' acts that day were intended, he said, "to make a point.
The defense has maintained that Tsarnaev, who was 19 and flunking out of college at the University of Massachusetts, Dartmouth, fell under the sway of his older, more radicalized brother.
The older brother, a 26-year-old former Golden Gloves boxer, had hoped to wage jihad and his slacker younger brother was just along for the ride, the defense has said.
"There should be no doubt in your mind that the defendant and his brother are equally guilty," he said.
The final moments of the three Boston Marathon spectators who died were recounted by the people who were by their sides.
Twelve seconds later, Dzhokhar Tsarnaev allegedly detonated a second, similar bomb outside the Forum restaurant, slightly more than a block away.
Her leg was torn open and she bled out."
The brothers allegedly killed the 26-year-old officier for his service weapon but couldn't pry it loose from a safety holster.
"Tamerlan wanted suicide by cop," the prosecutor said Monday.
As he hid, he used a pencil to scrawl what prosecutors called a "manifesto," in which he said he was jealous of his brother for dying as a martyr and reaching paradise.
And they traced the purchase of the pressure cookers, ammunition and BBs, which appeared to have been made by Tamerlan.