The same elite Navy SEAL unit that killed Osama bin Laden took part in a daring nighttime rescue in Somalia of two American and Danish foreign aid workers, a U.S. official said Wednesday.
The hostages, Jessica Buchanan and Poul Thisted, were abducted in October after they visited humanitarian projects in the northern part of Somalia, according to a Danish Refugee Council who employed them.
The SEAL moniker came after President John F. Kennedy spoke about his admiration for special forces troops and his hope that the U.S. military would better enhance its ability to engage in unconventional warfare, countering guerrilla and clandestine operations.
The relationship between America's spy agency and its elite troops was crucial to gaining real-time intelligence for missions sometimes carried out at the last minute -- perhaps an asset more important now than ever, experts have said.
The site says SEALs commanded Task Force K-BAR, which oversaw the Navy, Air Force and Coalition Special Operations Forces at the beginning of Operation Enduring Freedom.
The largest deployment of SEALs in the group's history came during the Iraq War, with SEALs directing missions that included securing all of the southern oil infrastructures of the Al-Faw peninsula and the offshore gas and oil terminals, clearing critical waterways so that aid could flow into the country.
But not long after that victory, the SEALs suffered the loss of 17 members when their helicopter was shot down in Wardak province in Afghanistan during a mission intended to take out a known Taliban leader directly responsible for attacks against American troops, two U.S. military officials told CNN shortly after the August incident.
Instructors deprive the participants of sleep, then let them hit the rack just long enough for REM sleep to begin, said Brandon Tyler Webb, a former SEAL who ran the sniper program at the Navy Special Warfare Command and was part of combat missions in Iraq and Afghanistan.
Most recruits drop out long before Hell Week because they can't take the training, which involves running 15 miles, topped with a 2-mile open water swim and other intense physical conditioning, Webb said.
He had gone to college, and though he was very bright he was spending more time working out than on his classwork.
Then one day he read an article about the SEALs in Popular Mechanics.
Though he won't discuss specific areas of countries where he's carried out missions, he said that he normally trained for missions on exact mock-ups of a targeted location.