This time, he couldn't overcome a weakness he has shown before, a tendency to distance himself from the audience, and this kept him from connecting and making a good showing.
Three of of Romney's debating strengths are being smooth and knowledgeable and having excellent first-line answers to questions.
Listen, Mitt Romney can handle these debates.
Romney talked over him so often that I swear one time I saw Lehrer slumping behind his desk while he meekly gazed up at Romney and muttered, "Excuse me, I believe you have my stapler."
But he corrected the potential error and instead had a solid, conversational manner in the debate.
Romney stuck to his theme of too much government overstretch during the Obama administration, whether on energy subsidies, health care, taxes or increasing the deficit.
Against John McCain in 2008, Obama focused on the economy as his theme and hammered away at George W. Bush and McCain.
Romney has not specified the details of how he will govern in all these important areas.
Near the beginning of the debate, he mentioned that arithmetic proved Romney's plans unworkable.
Which brings us to Obama's weaknesses: I wrote two days ago that his detachment was one weakness, that he can appear dispassionate and distancing to the audience.
If our economy isn't fully recovered and we're in hard times, our president should at least show more empathy.
You know it's bad when at the end of the debate, uber-wealthy Mitt Romney seems like he cares more about the middle class and even the lower class than the sitting Democratic president of the United States.
He simply has to put Romney on the defensive more often and provide arguments (and passion) that will resonate with voters.
Since Romney will continue to put him on the defensive (and this is guaranteed), Obama must turn potential flaws into strengths.
It wasn't a fluke, and he can prove it.
If he decides that his bullying technique of the moderator was effective (it worked Wednesday night, but I wouldn't push my luck if I were him), then he risks alienating voters.
The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Todd Graham.