Scott Walker and Texas Sen. Ted Cruz who saw strong receptions from the audience, though support for a wide number of candidates was expressed in the hallways after the event.
Billed as the Iowa Freedom Summit, the event was co-hosted by Citizens United and Rep. Steve King, a revered lawmaker who represents the northwestern part of the state and has considerable clout among the more social conservative and Christian right faction of the party.
"It wasn't just so I can go deer hunting every weekend, I can assure you that," he said.
Even Palin angled to get in on some of the action, teasing ahead of her appearance Saturday that she was now seriously considering a run.
The speakers, who were typically allotted 20 minutes, used a bulk of their speeches to share their own personal upbringings.
Given King's firebrand credentials as an outspoken opponent of illegal immigration, it was no surprise that problems at the border became a focal point in much of the speeches Saturday.
The potential candidates also warned about what they see as a dire path for the country, in particular when it comes to foreign policy, a theme that, along with immigration, also seems poised to become a flash point in the 2016 presidential race, unlike in 2012.
There was plenty of the usual Iowa charm on stage, speeches with pig analogies and corn references.
Giving a shout out to the state's newly elected U.S. senator, Joni Ernst, was also a popular item on the agenda for the potential candidates.
Nearly all of them referred to her as their "friend," and almost equal amount of affection and time was dedicated to the state's other beloved senator, Chuck Grassley.
"If he could do on a nationwide scale what he did in Wisconsin, this country would be," one man, Michael Patomson, started to say, before his friend, Bill Hartzell, interjected: "Transformed.
Christie also saw a warm reception and contested the idea that a Republican governor of a blue state who has a "Jersey guy" reputation will not connect with voters in Iowa.
Some of the chatter in the hallways and to reporters also featured two potential contenders who weren't there: Jeb Bush and Mitt Romney.
Bobby Jindal, also skipped the event, but given that it's year ahead before Iowans start to caucus, it's unlikely that missing one event will hurt them.
CNN's Adam Levy contributed to this report.