In a case that has ignited national debate about gun laws and race relations, Zimmerman, a neighborhood watch captain, is accused of second-degree murder in the fatal shooting of 17-year-old Trayvon Martin in February 2012 in Sanford, Florida.
"These were the words in this grown man's mouth as he followed this boy that he didn't know.
"The defendant claims that while Trayvon Martin was on top of him, he said, 'you are going to die tonight,'" said Guy.
In the first day of testimony, jurors heard witnesses recount Martin's trip to the convenience store, Zimmerman's call complaining about a suspicious person walking through his neighborhood before Martin's killing, and a call from the previous August, in which Zimmerman reported an alleged burglary to police.
Tracy Martin is a potential witness, and potential witnesses can be forced to sit outside of the courtroom to keep their testimony from being tainted by other witnesses.
At one point, Martin's father began crying as Guy detailed how officers tried to save his son's life.
As he began, he told a knock-knock joke.
"No more bad jokes, I promise that," he told jurors.
West quickly got on with the business of making his case: that Zimmerman was forced to act in self-defense to save his own life.
"Little did George Zimmerman know at the time in less than 10 minutes from him first seeing Travyon Martin that he, George Zimmerman, would be suckered punched in the face, have his head pounded on concrete and wind up shooting and tragically killing Trayvon Martin," West told jurors.
"At the moment this actually became physical was that Trayvon Martin -- I will use my words -- that Trayvon Martin decided to confront George Zimmerman," West said.
West quoted a witness named John Good who described the fight.
"Travyon Martin armed himself with the concrete sidewalk and used it to smash George Zimmerman's head," said West.
West showed jurors photos taken of Zimmerman after the fight.
Among the first prosecution witnessed called was the 911 dispatcher who took Zimmerman's call before the shooting.
"If you tell somebody twice to let you know if the person that they're concerned about is doing anything else -- do you think they're going to keep their eye on them?"
Noffke went on to say he only wanted a location of the suspect for officers and that he never told Zimmerman to follow or keep his eye on Martin.