The White House, which has declined to approve federal authorization of the National Guard in response to the immigration situation that has flared this year, panned Perry's idea as shortsighted and politically motivated.
Perry said those troops are needed to "combat" crime because the border patrol is busy dealing with the flow of immigrant kids crossing the border from Mexico.
If unaccompanied children approach the troops, however, Texas Adjutant General John Nichols, who is head of the Texas National Guard, said they will "get on the phone" to a border station so that the children will receive water and medical care.
And they will amass at the border to provide a strong visual that Perry hopes will "deter" criminals from bringing illicit activity across the border.
The former head of the National Guard and a former commissioner of the U.S. Customs and Border Protection bureau have said Perry's plan is limited in scope.
Aguilar said one thing that will help relieve the workload of border patrol agents is to relieve CBP from being the sole government agency to process and care for the unaccompanied youth in the immediate aftermath of their detention.
That part of the plan is up to Congress and the comprehensive immigration plan which would have provided more resources for border security is stalled in the House, and neither body has yet unveiled how they would solve the current border crisis.
Perry has some reconciling to do within a Republican Party that has used the current border crisis to move to the right on the issue.
A recent and much larger instance was Operation Jump Start, a two-year deployment that began in 2006 to stem the more than 1 million people who were caught crossing the border each year.
The Rio Grande sector, where most of the immigrant children are turning themselves into the border patrol, currently has 3,000 border patrol agents covering 320 miles of land and 250 miles of water, which equates to 5.4 agents per mile.
And the amount spent on border security has more than doubled.