Authorities said the boy was found unconscious and unresponsive on the floor of the bathroom at The Ritz Plaza, a luxury high-rise in the Hell's Kitchen section of Manhattan.
A prosecutor told the court last week that King also was being investigated on suspicion of murder and faced additional charges.
The boy's mother, Ashlee Dobson, who faced abuse and neglect charges in both South Carolina and New York City before ultimately losing custody of Myls in 2011, plans a memorial service for her son in Harlem on Tuesday night.
King told police that Myls' father dropped the child off for her to watch on December 17 and that she was the "child's primary and sole caretaker" until the time of his death, the complaint said.
At a news conference Friday, Herbert said that Dobson lost custody of her son for financial reasons.
David Bookstaver, a family court spokesman, said Wednesday that the mother's financial straits or stay at a shelter had nothing to do with her losing custody of the child.
At the New York family court hearing, it was mentioned that Ashlee Dobson was arrested after an emergency room nurse at a South Carolina hospital spotted lacerations on the boy and called the police, according to an April 8, 2011, police report from the Colleton County Sheriff's Office.
Philip Lights, Dobson's lawyer, said the case was later dismissed after his client agreed to counseling and treatment under the supervision of child welfare authorities.
King, the baby-sitter, told police that on December 29 she removed a hot rack from an oven with a glove and allegedly placed it against the boy's right leg, leaving linear burn marks, the complaint said.
On January 7, during subfreezing temperatures, King told police she allegedly locked the child, wearing only a T-shirt and shorts, outside on a balcony from 20 minutes to an hour, the complaint said.
Julie Bolcer, a spokeswoman for the city medical examiner's office, said an autopsy was performed Thursday, but the cause of death is pending further study.
"And god forbid when they happen, it is our job to learn from them and try to every time do better so we can reach more children."