Welcome to the age of novelty Twitter accounts, where animals, inanimate objects and other nonhuman entities speak their mind regularly: A pigeon with a foul mouth and a fouler demeanor.
Novelty nonhuman accounts have been a Twitter staple since Sockington, a Boston-area housecat, joined the service in March 2007 on his way to 1.4 million followers.
It has more than 12,000 followers -- not bad, considering the average Twitter user has 126.
"I figured the best way to test the waters was with a pseudonym," said the Burlington, Vermont, resident who asked that her name not be published to preserve the anonymity of her Twitter persona.
Other anonymous Twitter celebs began their accounts to educate and bring (hilarious) awareness to unappreciated things that can't speak for themselves, like the San Francisco fog that brings a chill to summers in that city.
And having moved here from a city where it was 100-plus degrees in the summer, I was mostly excited to not be dripping in sweat for three consecutive months."
Giving "Karl" an identity has brought out emphatic and sometimes cursory responses -- especially when the fog blocked Fourth of July fireworks -- but the Twitterverse has been receptive overall, he said.
The Orange Cone was originally a MySpace account but came to Twitter after its creator discovered the witty tweets of Bronx Zoo's Cobra, last year's famously escaped snake, and motorsports satirist @nascarcasm.
"Kasey made a Twitter apology and I added about 1,200 followers in the next hour," he said.
Nobody knows who I am," said the man behind the foul-tempered @PigeonJon bird character, referring to the anonymous Britain-based artist.
The person behind the wildly popular @BronxZoosCobra, which chronicles the "exploits" of a real-life snake that briefly escaped its enclosure at the New York City zoo, also declined to break character in an e-mail exchange with CNN.
The strangest thing tweeted at the snake, its creator said, was a request for an endorsement from a high school student running for student government.
"I have a feeling, and I could be wrong, that the people that follow The Orange Cone find it to be more 'real' than some of the drivers out on the track," its creator said.
"The Cone gets to say and do the things I think we all wish we could do," its creator said.
"It's not forced out by a brand with an agenda or political motive and it's whimsical, throw-away and easy to digest.
But let's be honest: @WeirdHorse may have one little agenda.