Lloyd had been shot seven times near a pile of construction waste.
Long before Hernandez made national headlines, he was a standout athlete in Bristol, Connecticut, who came from a family described as a local sports dynasty.
Hernandez's father constantly pushed his son, requiring him to practice for hours before he could go out with friends.
Hernandez was one of more than 20 people interviewed by police, and he was the only one who did not make a statement after invoking his right to counsel.
Hernandez was also suspended at least once for marijuana, an issue that would follow him as he entered the draft his junior year.
In addition, I will tie any guaranteed portion of my 2010 compensation to these drug tests and reimburse the team a pro-rata amount for any failed drug test," he wrote, according to the Boston Globe.
"He said he was at the club with Mr. Hernandez, and that they were partying and he had a good time, and that Mr. Hernandez spent a good amount of money," Branch recalled.
Jenkins is the younger sister of Shayanna, who's engaged to Hernandez and is the mother of his little girl.
Prosecutors say Lloyd was last seen with Hernandez and Hernandez's two associates, Carlos Ortiz and Ernest Wallace, around 2:30 a.m. in a rented silver Nissan Altima.
At 3:29, a camera showed an Altima pulling into Hernandez's driveway, about a half a mile from the death scene.
As the trial for the death of Lloyd neared, lawyers began arguing about evidence, including cell phones and text messages.
Jurors also didn't hear anything about what happened in Boston on July 16, 2012 -- the night two men were murdered outside a club where Hernandez had been.
Court documents identify that friend as Alexander Bradley, who would go on to accuse Hernandez of shooting him in the eye in an incident that would take place seven months later.
He then pulled up to the victims' car at a red light and leaned out the driver's side window with a loaded revolver, Haggan told the court.
Investigators found evidence they believe links him to the 2012 slayings while investigating the death of Lloyd.