Yet over time, she watched as the former football player started taking pills for his high cholesterol and high blood pressure, more for anxiety and gout, and insulin shots for his Type 2 diabetes.
When her insurance company announced that bariatric surgery, or weight-loss surgery, would be covered under the couple's plan, she told her husband about it.
He was tired of taking so many medications and not having enough energy to simply live life.
Another type involves placing an adjustable band around the upper portion of the stomach.
Dale also didn't want to have the option of reversing the surgery.
Many people who have bariatric surgery gain the weight back, so insurance companies are often wary of paying for the procedure.
The day of his surgery, his wife recalls she was an emotional wreck.
The surgery was a success, but he was far from the ideal patient.
"Imagine after you eat your big Thanksgiving dinner -- times 10," he says of overeating with his smaller stomach.
"We didn't go to happy hour or dinner with friends because he was uncomfortable," Debbie Benzine says.
He developed 10 rules for himself, and other bariatric patients, and the weight began to fall off.
He orders an appetizer instead of an entree when he goes out to play cards with friends during the week.
He plans to attend his 40th high school reunion in June with pride: "I know I'll be one of the only people who can say they weigh less at that reunion than they did in high school."
More importantly, "I will have my husband and best friend around for a long time," his wife says.
(Mine was Greek yogurt for breakfast and smoothies with strawberry, banana and chocolate protein.)
4) Concentrate on changing your daily eating habits from three large meals per day, plus snacks, to five to six small meals.
Join a card club, start reading again, or make a movie date with your significant other each week.
Regardless of what your mother said growing up, children in Africa, India or China aren't going to be affected if you leave food on your plate when eating at home or away.
You will have good days and a few bad ones and the unconditional love and support these people will show you will help you push through the bad and be there to help celebrate the good!