Here on this Caribbean island, and on the others that make up what's known as the West Indies, life revolves around one thing -- cricket.
In 1983, the West Indies cricket team was on top of the world.
At the same time, a world away, South Africa was deep in the heart of apartheid.
In 1970, the International Cricket Council banned South Africa from international competition, leaving the country's cricket-mad fans deprived of the sport they loved, and their cricketers of the careers they dreamed of.
To save cricket in South Africa, the sport's administrators knew something had to be done.
"From our point of view, we knew we had the best cricketers in the world," said former South African Cricket Union president Joe Pamensky, one of the rebel tour organizers.
Many big-name West Indies stars were outspoken in their refusal to play in apartheid South Africa.
It was enough to draw in names like batsmen Lawrence Rowe and Alvin Kallicharran, fast bowler Sylvester Clarke and wicketkeeper David Murray -- one of the best in the game.
He had repeatedly turned down offers to play in South Africa.
"When we got to South Africa, I realized that separation, and it wasn't only black and white," he said.
Unsure of how they'd be received by the country's mainly white fanbase, the West Indies rebels prepared for their first Test match.
"For the first time, they were seeing blacks beating whites," said newspaper writer Al Gilkes, the only journalist from the Caribbean to go to South Africa.
They say the presence of a team of black men in South Africa did not help end apartheid, but instead strengthened and supported it.
When the month-long tour was over, the rebel players knew they would have to face the repercussions of their decision back home.
The players were aware they might face a ban -- after all, England's rebel team had been banned for three years; Sri Lanka's was banned for 25 years.
They faced being deported from Australia for his role in the rebel tours, and were unwelcome back in the Caribbean, too.
But he still finds a way to connect to the sport he loved at the cricket and golf academy he started near his home.
For the players, their lives defined by this single moment in sport history, each day is a reminder of what they lost by going to South Africa.
In the last article, he stated the trip might have started with the players being viewed as mercenaries, but he saw them as missionaries "who converted white South Africans to accepting that blacks were their equals."
"They go and fight somebody else's cause.
So if that's being a mercenary, then yes I was."