House Speaker John Boehner, a leading Republican voice, told reporters he had no doubt "that there are going to be costs, lost lives associated with what came out of this," calling the swap a de facto deal with Taliban terrorists.
On the Democratic side, Senate allies of President Barack Obama said the deal mediated by the government of Qatar came together too quickly to consult with Congress over an exchange that critics from both parties have labeled too costly.
Members of both parties complain the Obama administration should have let Congress know ahead of time that the exchange was taking place.
"Nothing in the law requires the Secretary of Defense to disclose the physical details of the transfer," said McKeon, a Republican.
Democratic Sen. Joe Manchin, a moderate from West Virginia known for criticizing the administration at times, said his main concern was the release of five Taliban figures who could return to the battlefield against U.S forces and interests.
U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry defended the swap in an interview with CNN over the weekend, saying the former detainees would be monitored closely, and not just by officials in Qatar.
He wouldn't say who else will be watching, but he said the United States is confident the conditions of their release will be honored.
After the briefing to House members, some said they were told as many as 80 to 90 administration officials knew of the pending exchange ahead of time, while Congress did not.
"But I think it would have been wiser, far wiser, for the administration to have notified, certainly the leadership of Congress in the interest of having good relations."
The Army has no definitive finding that Bergdahl deserted because that would require knowing his intent -- something Army officials couldn't learn without talking to the soldier, a U.S. military official told CNN.
The "decision to speak with the family is a decision the returnee has to make when he or she is emotionally in the right place to make the phone call," Warren said.
CNN reported Friday that Bergdahl has said he was kept in a small box after trying to escape, according to a senior U.S. official, who spoke on the condition of not being identified.