Washington (CNN) -- In the most extensive reshaping of the Obama administration's national security team to date, the president will name Central Intelligence Agency Director Leon Panetta as his nominee to succeed Robert Gates as defense secretary, top U.S. officials said Wednesday.
Petraeus will remain in command in Afghanistan until Allen is ready to take over at the beginning of September, officials said, which could require an interim CIA director if Panetta moves to the defense secretary's office as planned on July 1.
"The sum total of these picks is that the president has chosen experienced people with unique capabilities to serve our nation at a dangerous time," said Republican Sen. Lindsey Graham of South Carolina.
Panetta has been happy serving at the CIA, but "believes strongly in public service and answering the call from the commander-in-chief," the source said.
He was brought in as a relative outsider, without hands-on intelligence experience, to manage an agency that had been shaken by the exposure and criticism of its controversial interrogation and detention program.
Panetta has earned the trust and confidence of Obama as leader of the CIA, and has name recognition, which is important, Berteau said, adding: "It's a name Americans recognize.
Earlier this month, Petraeus took a highly unusual step for a military officer when he publicly acknowledged the possibility of being in contention for a presidential appointment.
Gates is the only Cabinet member from the previous administration to stay on when Obama came into office.
When asked if he would continue under another administration, Gates said in 2008, "I learned a long time ago never to say never, so my answer is: The circumstances under which I would do that are inconceivable to me."
Attorney General Eric Holder on Tuesday did not rule out Mueller staying on short-term when his 10-year term expires in September if a successor has not yet been confirmed.
Holder said he believes that if a nominee is selected by May, the administration should have time to get the new director confirmed by August.