A tiny Japanese athlete easily tucked away 50 pieces of sushi after training, while another marathon runner gobbled plates of raw mince.
With a McDonald's at one end and machines dispensing other sponsors' soft drinks and confectionery, the giant eating area provides mountains of fodder from around the world -- a full gamut of gluttony from one extreme of the health spectrum to the other.
There's thousands of athletes and there's pretty much every kind of cuisine that you could possibly want.
British weightlifter Jake Oliver says that every morning he drinks a shake containing colostrum -- a protein-rich form of milk produced during the late stages of cows' pregnancy.
Phelps actually admitted this year that the report of his gargantuan appetite was a myth, saying such intake would be impossible.
The only people that I've seen eat close to that are the hammer throwers, and they all weigh in at 120 kilos."
She cites reports that showed Chinese adolescent girls with adequate vitamin D had "significant higher bone mass and muscle strength."
Questions have been raised about teenage swimmer Ye Shiwen's incredible performances at London 2012, but such research has yet to prove that high levels of vitamin D could be a contributing factor to her success.
But, with drug-testing standards improving year by year and the list of banned substances also increasing, there is a strong onus for athletes to be acutely aware of everything they put in their mouth.
They live an extreme life, the amount of training they do is extreme, they exercise way outside what the normal person would do, so it is important to supplement their diet," Corones says.
"Earlier on we want them to be carrying a bit of extra weight to reduce the chances of injury and illness, but then when it gets down to racing it's stripped down to the bare minimum," she says.
A big part of Corones' job is making sure athletes learn the right food habits -- and this generally means breaking eating patterns formed at a young age.
It's about trying to break those cycles and get them eating as well as they can."