The most recnt advice from the CDC is that non-essential travel to Mexico should be avoided.
From 1976 until 2005, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention received approximately one report every year or two of humans with swine flu.
Dr. Richard Besser, the acting director of the CDC, said in a news conference Friday that among the first seven cases, no one had contact with pigs.
More than 200 "zoonotic diseases" are transmitted from animals to humans, including illnesses caused by bacteria, viruses and parasites.
That's the advice from a recent CDC travel warning.
Young, healthy people struck dead in Mexico.
Take the St. Francis School in New York.
"We should be alert, keep up with the information coming out daily, and take control by being attentive to your hygiene.
We're not talking about walking past someone in the street.
If you think you might have sustained contact with someone who's ill, read this guidance from the CDC's Web site.
That's why people with the symptoms of any kind of flu -- fever, diarrhea, body aches, vomiting, etc.
Yes, a swine flu vaccine was given to 45 million people in 1976.
The 1976 vaccine wouldn't be helpful anyway, according to Dr. Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute for Allergy & Infectious Diseases.
For example, in 1918 when a new flu virus emerged, many of those stricken were young and healthy.
But there's a potential side effect to the response: the body releases dangerous levels of signaling proteins, called cytokines, which can damage the lungs.
It's also possible that the virus infecting the rest of the world is a weaker version than the one in Mexico.
That's the theory on some conspiracy theorists' Web sites.
"If you were a bioterrorist you'd want to create something that's a lot more deadly than this," said Dr. Gerald Evans, an associate professor of microbiology at Queen's University in Canada.
"I think it's a bit of an open question whether repeated flu shots over years would provide a measure of protection."
The incubation period of the swine flu is one to seven days.
So theoretically, you could get swine flu from touching a doorknob that was just touched by an infected person.
However, that's pretty unlikely, according to Dr. Arthur Reingold, head of epidemiology in the School of Public Health at the University of California, Berkeley.
He might not want you in the waiting room spreading germs to others," he said.
CNN Medical Producer John Bonifield contributed to this report.