For the United States and its allies, Yemen's government has been a key ally in the fight against al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, the Yemen-based group linked to attacks such as the recent slaughter at French magazine Charlie Hebdo.
"Our forecast is really civil war in Yemen because we have a lot of nonstate armed groups who are likely to compete over territory and have a lot of competing agendas," she said.
But there has already been resistance to their attempted takeover of national government institutions from different groups in Yemen, particularly in the south, where there's a long-running secessionist movement, and in the oil-rich province of Marib to the east of Sanaa.
The group more likely wanted Hadi to remain in power as a figurehead behind whom they could pull the strings, without having to take on the burdensome business of governance, said Al Rowas.
Under Wednesday's failed peace deal, the Hadi government had agreed to rewrite parts of the country's constitution to give the Houthis more political power in return for them withdrawing their militias from key government institutions and freeing the President's kidnapped aide.
And in September, Houthi fighters suddenly descended on Sanaa, where they took over government buildings, the main airport and a share of power.
The Houthis have more recently forged an alliance with supporters of former President Saleh, said Al Rowas.
The Muslim Brotherhood is also a powerful group in Yemen -- in the shape of the Al Islah Party -- and is well represented in the transitional government.
While in power, Hadi and the government of Prime Minister Khaled Bahah have been trying to fight AQAP on the ground and also have authorized U.S. drone strikes in the country against terror targets.
There are currently no talks with the Houthis, but there are discussions about whether to talk to them, according to U.S. officials.
They have popular committees all over the capital of Sanaa, and they've been running the security show.
While Hadi wasn't able to unify the country while in power, she said, since the Houthi takeover of Sanaa, he has become the popular symbol of anti-Houthi sentiment across southern and central Yemen.
Large-scale protests have also been seen in Aden, the main seaport in the country's south, where the current chaos plays into the hands of the secession movement.