Having graduated from the Kiev Foreign Languages Institute, he worked as a journalist, did his military service as a prison warden in Odessa, then became a cameraman, writer of screenplays and author.
Although a war still seemed unavoidable, it didn't inspire the same fear as in the early days of the occupation of Crimea.
Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov repeats each day that Russia doesn't plan to occupy eastern and southern Ukraine.
On March 5, Putin announced to the world that "military maneuvers" were successfully completed and by March 7 all Russian soldiers, together with their equipment, would be back in their usual location, leaving Crimea alone.
While Putin continues to show he is not interested in the opinion of the rest of the world, this fact will have rather serious consequences for the occupied peninsula itself.
I think Russian oligarchs will soon receive an order from the Kremlin to buy holiday packages to Crimean sanitoriums and resorts for their employees.
Putin will have no other choice but to follow Europe's example and subsidize farmers and winemakers so they don't grow anything and reduce wine production.
Currently tram and trolleybus driver's salaries are frozen, the number of suburban trains had been cut and people are trying to figure out how to keep on living.
For the last 20 years Crimea has been known for its love for everything Soviet.
Considering that Putin has often said he considers the collapse of Soviet Union as his own personal tragedy, it wouldn't be too much of a risk to call the park, spread over 27,000 square kilometers, "Putinland."
You can expect that this year communists and pro-Russian activists in the south and east of Ukraine will demonstrate, claiming to be commemorating victory over Nazi Germany.
It is clear that Ukrainian authorities have got stronger and will use police and the security services to prevent this happening.
That is because the Kremlin's main goal remains to put a pro-Russian government in Ukraine, the kind that will sign an agreement of friendship and cooperation and will recognize to Crimea as a Russian territory.