Many sleeping pills stop working after a few hours, and most should not be combined with other medications.
Many stop working after a few hours, for instance, and most should never be mixed with other meds.
For starters, your doc may have you visit a sleep specialist to rule out sleep apnea, a common breathing disorder that wakes sufferers several times a night, sometimes without them even knowing it.
If you don't have apnea, some docs recommend cognitive behavioral therapy: You work with a trained therapist to change how you think about sleep and learn sleep-inducing techniques (like how to set up your sleep space and what to do before bedtime).
A: Many sleep experts aren't fans of OTC sleep aids because the meds don't usually help people with significant insomnia.
Short-acting medications kick in and then fade out, which is why they are prescribed for people who have trouble falling asleep.
Longer-acting drugs like the time-released Ambien CR or Lunesta -- for people who have trouble falling and staying asleep -- shouldn't be taken more than once a night.
This can dangerously slow your heart rate and lead to dizziness, fainting, and shallow breathing, which can deprive your body of oxygen and damage brain cells.
Because everyone metabolizes food and alcohol at different rates, there are no safety absolutes when it comes to the minimum number of hours you should wait between consuming alcohol and taking a sleeping pill, experts say.
A: There are no known long-term health risks with most sleep aids, but some are more addictive than others.
Tolerance is a common problem with all sleeping pills: After taking them for a while, you need more than the usual dose to help you sleep, which may lead you to think you're addicted.
Generally, you want to reduce drugs by one clinical dose per week: If you're taking 10 milligrams of traditional Ambien a night, start taking 5 mg a night for a week, Arand recommends.
A: You might have some trouble, Krieger says, though it's less likely with the newer pills -- these include Rozerem, Sonata, and Lunesta.
Melatonin, a sleep hormone your body makes naturally, and the herb valer­ian may be helpful (both are available at drugstores), but some experts feel there's a lack of research to back up the effectiveness of these supplements.
Before using any supplement, check with your doctor; combining them with other medications -- sleeping pills or otherwise -- can be risky.