Magruder, a 23-year-old "Clinton-ologist" from Pennsylvania, devotes much of his online life to supporting, defending and responding to her every move.
In what he calls his "own little war room" -- his computer and Twitter account -- the Pennsylvania state Senate employee has carved out a space as one of Clinton's most ardent unpaid supporters.
While their defenses don't have the weight of a Clinton spokesperson or a former top aide, they are influential in their small community of friends and family.
"I don't know if Maggie Haberman still hates me or not," he said referring to a Politico reporter he sparred with over a story.
And while he only has 780 followers, many of those include reporters following Clinton and representatives from the groups looking to help her if she runs again.
Since 2008, Still 4 Hill -- who keeps her identity private because of her paid employment -- has kept detailed records of Clinton's comings and goings, including nearly every speech she delivered as secretary of state.
She began to write about Clinton's events at the State Department and once Clinton stepped down as America's top diplomat in 2013, Still 4 Hill began writing about Clinton on the paid speaking circuit.
When the Washington Post's conservative blogger Jennifer Rubin wrote a lengthy critique of Clinton's time at State, Still 4 Hill responded to what she called "repetitive and tiresome... empty bloviating" from Rubin.
And when Still 4 Hill met Clinton at a New Jersey book singing this year, she was sure to mention her blog.
"To the extent that the actors join Hillary's campaign or official groups that support Hillary's campaign, their views and statements online become relevant," Tim Miller, executive director of America Rising, an anti-Clinton super PAC, told CNN.
"I am reading her book now and when I read the first chapter it was like tearing a scab off a wound of something," Still 4 Hill said, capturing how she is still hurt over that campaign.
I removed a lot of the pages from June 2008 to the general election campaign."
"But whether or not I get an official role won't stop me from doing work on social media."