He has been a prominent organizer of street protests and has attacked corruption in Russian government, using his blog and social media.
But in November 2010, Shuster said, Navalny "blew the whistle" on what he said was a $4 billion embezzlement scheme at the state-run oil pipeline operator Transneft -- a claim vigorously denied by the head of the company and Russian president Vladimir Putin.
Lipman said Navalny was a fearless and very talented public politician who had managed to "beat the system that Putin built" to keep outsiders out of the political framework.
It sentenced him to five years in prison.
"I've been investigating corruption in state-run companies by government officials for the last six years.
There is hardly any doubt that the verdict in the courtroom was not made by the judge himself," she said.
"The suspect is doing his best to draw attention to himself; one could even say he is teasing the authorities," said Vladimir Markin, the spokesman of Russia's Investigative Committee, in April, according to the Washington Post.
She said that his release was unlikely to have been as a result of protest action after the verdict was announced.
"Their response, invariably, is, it's up to the court to decide," she said.
Lipman said that if Navalny's conviction was upheld by a higher court, his name would be unable to appear on an electoral ballot.
"Regarding my participation in the elections, I am not some kind of a kitten or a puppy to whom they first say it can't participate in the elections and then they say, 'let's release him for a while so he can participate in the elections,'" he said.
"I don't think it will affect his standing in the eyes of the conservative majority.
Rachel Denber, deputy director of Human Rights Watch's Europe and Central Asia division, said she was not surprised by the guilty verdict but was shocked by the five-year prison sentence.
The case was twice closed for lack of evidence of a crime, before being reopened on the personal instruction of Russia's top investigator."
Not on previous occasions and not this time."