(CNN) -- It was late afternoon in Kiev on July 17 when I spotted the tweet: A commercial airliner had been downed over eastern Ukraine.
It was exactly 24 hours after Malaysia Airlines Flight 17 fell out of the heavens and into the farmlands of the Donetsk region when our team of two dozen monitors arrived on the scene.
Aside from the vertical tail, the aft section of the fuselage was among the largest, intact pieces of debris.
The impact of the jet smashing into the ground caused a fireball in one field that brought temperatures as high as 1,600 degrees Celsius, according to some experts -- enough to melt the aluminum wings of the 17-year-old aircraft and incinerate everything in the immediate area.
There were many scenes that defied logic: an opened bag of duty free items with two plastic, un-pilfered bottles of whiskey, a MacBook Pro laptop, a Lonely Planet guidebook to Bali -- not a surprising find given that this "backpacker route" is heavily used by holidaymakers destined for Asia.
By far the most horrific scene was four days after the crash, when our team monitored the sealing up of train cars filled with the remains of the plane's passengers, at the railway station in Torez (which, ironically, was where four of our colleagues were kidnapped by an armed group at the end of May).
I marveled particularly at the stoicism and composure of the Malaysian experts: These are men who live and breathe aviation, and they knew the aircraft intimately.
On August 1, after almost a week-long pause due to security reasons, we were able to establish a new access route that paved the way for daily visits by a critical mass of Dutch and Australian experts to the MH17 crash site.
To finally see dozens of trained sets of eyes combing over the site, starting with the chicken farm near Hrabove, brought us all a sense of accomplishment.
As always, our hearts and prayers are with the victims' loved ones, and we hope that we have been able to provide them with some sense of comfort and closure to this horrific tragedy.