(CNN) -- It's one of the smallest countries in Africa, and one of the poorest in the world, but Burundi is showing the way in the development of tennis on the continent.
But the future may lie in a country which is rebuilding itself after conflicts which saw more than half a million people killed and mass migrations of its fleeing population.
The ITF has three development officers across the continent and supports national tennis federations with equipment and skills programs aimed particularly at young children, but its resources are limited.
"In a country like Kenya, if you speak to the Olympic committee for funding for coaches, they say our priorities are track and field because this is where we get the medals.
Ranked only 112th in the juniors, he received a wildcard into the qualifying draw and beat three players well above him to progress into the main section.
We give them the right opportunity now so one day they become professional tennis players -- and then suddenly other African kids will relate to these players.
It can cost $70-80,000 a year to fund top coaching and tournament travel, so the best option for African players -- for those who have adequate schooling -- has traditionally been to win a college scholarship in the United States.
That was Anderson's route, following the likes of compatriot Liezel Huber and Zimbabwe's Black siblings Byron and Wayne -- who won grand slam titles in doubles events, as has their sister Cara.
There are a lot of tournaments there, you can play a lot of matches in the spring and during the summer you can actually go and play in the professional tournaments."
Born in Durban, she went to the Van der Meer academy in Hilton Head, South Carolina, at the age of 15 in 1992 after being frustrated by her lack of opportunities back home.
"It was an unfortunate time, it was around when apartheid ended, and if anything it should have been a time when South Africa got the boom, but really it was society trying to figure it out -- where do we stand, where do we fit in.
That's kind of what hurts the most," said the 34-year-old, who has won six grand slam doubles titles and been ranked No.
Her disappointment with the tennis authorities in her former homeland grew when they refused to pay for her plane ticket for an important Fed Cup teams match.
Huber has sponsored an under-15 girls' tournament in South Africa for almost a decade, and has offered to train players for free at the tennis ranch she runs in Texas with her husband Tony, but has been disappointed with the response from South African Tennis.
We were there (South Africa) in March and did a clinic for kids -- it was a big disappointment.
It's an eye-opener that it hasn't changed."