On both sides of the U.S.-Mexico border, key questions are lingering after Mexico's presidential vote.
And will Peña Nieto's proposal to decrease violence mark a significant shift in U.S.-Mexico drug war policy?
"I get the sense the PRI recognizes that they are going to have to build broader coalitions in order to govern effectively," he said.
And it's unclear how influential leaders from the party's old guard -- some of whom have close ties with Peña Nieto -- will be, he said.
U.S. Rep. Henry Cuellar, a Democrat from the border city of Laredo, Texas, said the answer is clear.
Weeks before Sunday's vote, criticisms of Peña Nieto and concerns about the PRI's possible return to power fueled a student movement that has staged demonstrations throughout the country.
"In a country like Mexico, where we already have a high incidence of violence due to organized crime, add to that social unrest, and it could be an explosive mixture," she said.
The former Mexico City mayor was measured In response to the results of Sunday night's quick count, which placed him at least 6 percentage points behind Peña Nieto.
Beyond Mexico's borders, part of Peña Nieto's campaign platform has been a focal point for U.S. officials and lawmakers: Peña Nieto's pledge to focus more on reducing violence and less on catching cartel leaders and blocking drugs from reaching the United States.
Announcing a crackdown on cartels and sending troops into the streets to help fight the battle were among the first major moves by Calderon after he took office in December 2006.
And for nearly six years, a brutal drug war in Mexico with a staggering death toll of more than 47,500 people has dominated discussions between the United States and Mexico.
Changing strategies in dealing with drug violence, Cuellar said, doesn't mean stopping the battle.
Pledges to change tack in the drug war were common across party lines on the presidential campaign trail this year, Chabat said.
In speeches, it sounds really great to say that you're going to do things differently, but there won't be many changes."