Yet on a finite Earth, with a billion new people being added every 15 years, that juggernaut is now laying siege to the physical bases of life and the social support systems that make life pleasant and decent.
After all, the world economy has expanded at least 100-fold since modern industrial capitalism first found its footing in Britain around 1800, and for most of the world, living standards have risen markedly along the way.
Too many of the super-rich, whether they are calling for drilling in the Arctic for oil or encouraging the cutting down of the rainforests for tropical hardwoods, simply deny the irreparable damage they are causing to the planet.
Sustainable development is a doctrine that says: Let us once again place the economy on a true moral foundation and we'll keep greed within bounds, ensuring the economic growth is combined with social fairness and environmental sustainability.
And equally important, those gains should be based on true value added, not on the destruction of natural capital, whether through deforestation, climate change, or pollution of air, land, and water.
Yet it recognizes that we are doomed to conflict and even collapse if we fail to promote social equality and environmental sustainability.
In my new book, The Age of Sustainable Development, I¹ve not only analyzed the trends of growing inequality and rising environmental destruction, but have also shown how the concepts of sustainable development can be used to chart a way out of our growing crisis.
And doubters about the feasibility of sustainable development should have a look at Scandinavia ¬ Denmark, Norway, and Sweden, as they are the closest on the planet to achieving this Trifecta of prosperity, fairness, and sustainability.
And, more generally, although the U.S. political system still feeds untrammeled greed by enabling super-rich campaign donors and lobbyists to buy the political class, the American people and much of the rest of the world are coming to recognize the urgency of sustainable development.