They turn on the lights, pull metal chairs across the wooden floor and settle in with paper cups of coffee and the weight of the week.
They've heard weekly sermons about how to plan, overcome and grow, but the lessons really start to apply in Bible study, like today, when they'll pore over a line and relate it back to the messy, wonderful business of living.
Members say it was the first brick structure in Georgia that was built, used and owned by black people, that it's their own living history of slavery, civil rights and freedom.
Thurmond N. Tillman sits in his folding chair and reminds his followers of the Bible passage he repeats most, from the book of Matthew: "But seek first the kingdom of God and His righteousness, and all these things shall be added to you."
After the first Bible study of the day, Johnny McDonald explains this to a small tour group seated in the church's curved oak pews.
He tells of schisms that divided the flourishing black congregation.
Most of the church members were slaves, whose labor fueled Savannah's agriculture and shipping economy.
The pastor championed a new structure, one made of brick, one made to last.
Perhaps their best plan was mostly out of view, McDonald explains as he leads visitors down stairs and into the basement.
Most of the builders were still enslaved after the church doors opened, but freedom came to them a few years later, anyway, through the Emancipation Proclamation.
It's time for the evening Bible study, and the crowd has outgrown the basement.
Or builders, serving to edify their church and its mission in the community?
He wants them to consider the community's needs and use their talents to serve the church, whether they're passing out water at football games, teaching a seminar about financial planning or leading a church tour.
They want to rip the stucco off the exterior and preserve those old gray bricks, then build a museum out back to teach thousands of visitors who take their tour every year.
Surely, we can do other great and wonderful things in this day and time, regardless of how the economic times are."
We are builders, he tells the congregation, and builders must have plans.