But now that he appears to be poised to take executive action to fix some of what's broken with the country's immigration system, Republicans in Congress sound like they're about to overreact and join him in that failure.
That's because Obama belongs to that wing of the Democratic Party that hasn't been interested in legalizing the undocumented and creating more competition in the job market for U.S. workers.
Options include some common sense items: Eliminating Secure Communities; broadening DACA by eliminating restrictions on how old applicants can be and when they had to have arrived; restating that the enforcement priority should be to remove violent criminals and not housekeepers and students; and expanding visa programs for immigrant spouses of U.S. citizens.
When those undocumented college students known as DREAMers first argued for special treatment, the claim was based on the simple idea that they were brought here as children and thus didn't intentionally choose to break the law.
Besides, if Obama offers deferred action to parents, it will validate what conservatives have always insisted about how the U.S.-born children of illegal immigrants can be used to keep their parents from being deported.
Besides, this is just a temporary reprieve that would require the undocumented to surrender to law enforcement officials, get fingerprinted and all the rest.
Finally, this is not what Obama promised way back when -- that he would work aggressively with Congress to pass legislation that would permanently improve the lives of millions.
As head of the executive branch, Obama naturally has the power to set priorities for the enforcement of immigration law.
Besides, Republicans like to talk tough about illegal immigration and the need to uphold the "rule of law" but that slogan would mean more coming from them if they didn't always run away from enforcing those laws that target the root of illegal immigration: U.S. employers who hire the undocumented, many of whom contribute to the re-election campaigns of Republican lawmakers.
But it does have the advantage of being true.