But some things haven't changed a bit: the trademark smirk when he is amused, a squinty glare when he doesn't appreciate the question -- and a quick turn to humor when the conversation turns to "legacy," including the scars of Iraq or the cloud of Katrina.
The 43rd president said he has learned lessons from his predecessors about how to make a mark after leaving the White House.
The former president said he knows the library dedication will re-stir the debate about his presidency, and he conceded the library is in part an effort by him and supporters to influence history's verdict.
But he predicted visitors would find it "more objective" than they might have imagined and he showed little interest in revisiting flash points like Iraq, Hurricane Katrina or the 2008 financial crisis.
"I know this, that  Laura and I gave  the presidency eight years of our life.
Candidate Bush had promised a humble foreign policy, with a heavy focus on the Western Hemisphere.
One step past images of that festive dinner takes you into the horror and carnage of September 11, including a twisted beam from the second tower of the World Trade Center and the bullhorn the president used during his now iconic visit to the rubble at ground zero a few days after the attacks.
Asked if he is now convinced he launched the war with too small a U.S. military force, Bush said, "There are some -- you know, tactics that  need to be revisited.
"The museum  is a -- it does give people the opportunity to hear  the different points of view that  I got on these particular issues," he said.
Veterans of Bush administration policy battles might wonder why former Vice President Dick Cheney does not have that role in the library, given his strong support for the tougher interrogations, including waterboarding in a few cases.
In other words, there's a mythology in Washington."
Yeah, he didn't agree with that decision.
I'm -- you know, I get -- there's no telling how history would have recorded the situation had I declared an insurrection.
Hopefully people will go to the Decision Points Theater and say, "Wow, I didn't understand that."
And I was real proud of my little brother being out there, you know -- pushing the issue.
George Bush: Well, big Jeb, you know, he's got a decision to make.
I always said that  one of the principles that was important to me was human life.
And there's nothing more important, I think, and Laura thinks as well, to help somebody live.
So he read Churchill's book, "Painting As a Pastime" and he's actually very good.
And I readily concede the signature is more valuable than the painting.