For all the bloodshed thus far -- including at least 30 killed in Gaza since Wednesday, according to a Palestinian government website, and Israel reporting three deaths in Kiryat Malachi -- there has been little indication the situation will calm any time soon.
The Cabinet headquarters for Hamas, the same building where Egypt's prime minister met with Hamas' officials the previous day, was among the sites destroyed, according to Hamas TV.
Meanwhile, the Israel Defense Forces, which has accused Hamas of turning Gaza into "a frontal base for Iran," said 97 rockets launched from Gaza had hit Israel since midweek, while another 99 were intercepted by a missile defense system.
Rejecting the idea of a temporary cease-fire Israel had requested because of the Egyptian prime minister's Gaza visit,  the militant group al-Qassam -- the military arm of Hamas -- reported on its Twitter feed that it had fired a Grad missile  Friday on the southern Israeli city of Beer Sheva.
This violent back-and-forth comes after the Israeli military's start Wednesday of an operation it calls Pillar of Defense, which it launched to target those behind the high number of rockets fired at Israel over the past year.
In Gaza City, for example, a neighbor at al-Shifa Hospital held the body Friday of 4-year-old Mahmoud Sadalah, who his father described as "very sweet" and intelligent.
At least 101 children and 96 women have been injured in Israeli strikes, a figure that does not include carnage from new attacks late Friday night, said Dr. Mufeed Mkhallalati, the Palestinian health minister.
With its attacks, Israel is denying Palestinians their rights and efforts to establish an independent state, Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas said Friday.
The whole world must intervene, and Israel must abide by the agreements and stop the aggression."
The armed conflict is likely to further erode Israel's fragile relationship with Egypt, which recalled its ambassador to Israel on Wednesday in protest over the ongoing strikes.