Musharraf now says he plans to return to his home country sometime at the end of January.
His rise through the military would help cement his political power in Pakistan by gaining the backing of the country's armed forces.
It was during his stint as the country's military chief that there was an opening for Musharraf's political ascendancy, when in 1999 the then-Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif dismissed him after the army's failed invasion in Kargil, in Indian-administered Kashmir.
In a televised address in December 2004, Musharraf announced that he would not step down as top military leader, even though he had previously agreed to give up the position of the head of the army at the end of 2004.
He brought women into the parliament," said Ahmed Bilal Mehboob, director of the Pakistan Institute of Legislative Development and Transparency.
The move triggered protests and accusations that he was trying to influence the court's ruling on whether he could run for another five-year term.
Bhutto had returned from a self-imposed, eight-year exile to run in the country's general elections two months before her assassination and already had escaped one attempt on her life.
Musharraf's government and the CIA contend the killing was orchestrated by a group with ties to al Qaeda, but polls found that a majority of Pakistanis believe Musharraf's government was complicit.
Six months later, the coalition moved to impeach Musharraf, who then resigned as president, though he said the allegations of misconduct were false.
Musharraf now says he'll return to his country between January 27 and 30, despite word from authorities that he will be arrested when he does so.
"They are bound to execute the order unless a higher court sets aside the orders," Ali said, adding that Musharraf is accused of conspiring in the assassination.
He spoke about the possibility of arrest, but said he expects he will be fine, so long as "the judiciary plays its just role, and there are no interruptions."
I need to muster all the support I can," he said.