Rodney King, whose beating by Los Angeles police in 1991 was caught on camera and sparked riots after the acquittal of the four officers involved, was found dead in his swimming pool Sunday, authorities and his fiancee said.
She reported the two had just had a conversation and she went inside, but came back out after hearing a splash and saw him at the bottom of the pool.
De Anda said he did not see any drug paraphernalia "or anything that would indicate that Mr. King was intoxicated" at the scene, but a toxicology screen would be performed.
"It was his beating that made America focus on the presence of profiling and police misconduct."
An amateur cameraman caught the scene as four white police officers struck King more than 50 times with their wooden batons and used a stun gun on him.
The video shows King cowering on the ground and attempting to crawl away as he is surrounded by a crowd of police officers.
"We finally caught the Loch Ness Monster with a camcorder," King attorney Milton Grimes said.
Powell's attorney, Michael Stone, said last year the unedited video worked against King and helped prove the officers' case.
On the third day of rioting, King emerged from seclusion to make a plea: "People, I just want to say, can we all get along?
He told CNN in 2011 that slurs were used, but said he vacillated on the stand because his mother had told him to avoid talking about race.
"I hope we just get one on that.
"Half of them had no sympathy whatsoever," Kelly, his fiancee, told CNN in 2011 about her fellow jurors.
No one deserves to get beat like that."
"The trouble that (people) see me in is a part of my life that I'm working on," he said in 2011.
He also released a memoir, "The Riot Within," in which he describes his difficult upbringing and his reflections on the beating and its aftermath.
"He was a wonderful, kind and gentle man," said Dr. Drew Pinsky of "Celebrity Rehab," who also appears on CNN sister network HLN.
"He was at the center of a maelstrom and was able to maintain dignity and really keep his head high in a way that was an example for all of us."
This country is my house, it's the only home I know, so I have to be able to forgive -- for the future, for the younger generation coming behind me, so ... they can understand it and if a situation like that happened again, they could deal with it a lot easier."
But called them his own'