Editor's note: Journalist Karl Penhaul spent several weeks tracking the gangs of the Mexican underworld, the corrupt officials who support them and the cops trying to halt the violence.
"Lupito," as friends and family knew him, went down in a hail of bullets before he reached 22.
The drab grave of this cartel triggerman, at the Jardines de Humaya cemetery in state capital Culiacan, stands in stark contrast to the mausoleums of dead capos, or drug bosses.
He said grateful drug barons often pay for loyal hitmen to be buried here, the city's toniest graveyard.
He's an undertaker and by coincidence he took the call that Lupito had been shot.
They look about the same age as the dead gunman, the same cropped-hair, one heavily scarred around his eye.
This is the first time we've come to pay our respects," one of them explained.
Drug rivalries have been known to spill over at funerals so many mourners opt to stay away leaving only the closest relatives to bury their dead quietly and without public complaints.
At Jardines de Humaya and across town at the 21 de Marzo cemetery, rows of recently dug graves are filled with the young foot soldiers of Mexico's drug war.
A crosscheck of their names in the obituary columns of the local newspaper reveal tales of men in their late teens and early 20s, gunned down in firefights, shot in cold blood on their doorsteps or killed in prison clashes.
When the reality boils down to kill or be killed, it's unsurprising the hitmen and the narco-traffickers want to improve their odds of survival.
Some try to conceal their faces behind a musician's trombone or tuba.
I told another man, who gave his name as "Rosario," that he looked like a stereotypical narco.
Rosario laughed off my suggestion and laughed again in my face as he told me he was paying tribute to Malverde after a good few months working as a carpet fitter in Arizona.
Needless to say, the Catholic Church takes a dim view of those who worship Malverde and another growing cult known as the "Holy Death," which critics say is also popular among thieves and narcos.
Tomorrow, Penhaul examines how the gangs dispose of their victims and what officials are doing to stem the violence.