(CNN) -- Joao Victor Marcari Oliva could become one of Brazil's brightest Olympic talents, if he can step out of the shadows of a legend: his mum.
Oliva says: "Every time I'm walking down the street with my mum, there are a lot of fans taking photos of her and people asking for autographs.
With a home Olympic Games two years away, the Brazilian equestrian team is in the middle of an unprecedented push for success on the world stage.
Brazil has virtually no history of dressage -- one of three equestrian disciplines at the Olympics -- so Oliva has moved to Germany, one of the sport's leading nations, to find better tuition.
New Zealand's Mark Todd, for example, is coaching the Brazilian eventing team.
"The Brazilians are a long way behind, but they're very enthusiastic," says the 58-year-old, who coaches some of the riders at his base in Wiltshire, England, alongside several trips to South America each year.
You're asked to do a job and they say there will be help, but you spend six months of the year faffing around."
Showjumper Marlon Zanotelli moved to Belgium to further his career, even though -- unlike dressage and eventing -- his discipline has history in Brazil.
The 26-year-old spent his childhood on the road with his father, a moderately successful eventer named Mario, at tournaments across Brazil.
Brazil has no shortage of aspiring talent: comparatively new faces like Oliva and Zanotelli line up alongside the likes of Doda Miranda in showjumping and Roger Clementino -- the first African-Brazilian to reach the Olympics, who taught a young Oliva -- in dressage.
Although the Olympics are two years away, two years is nothing in terms of getting a horse educated to compete against all the other countries at the top level."
"This is a big country, and we have a lot of issues, but when the time comes for an event we have really good people who love to host foreigners and put on a good show.
"Every day, when you wake up in the morning, an Olympics in your own country gives you the motivation to keep working.