"He woke up in the middle of the night and started screaming and told everyone to run out of the house," said Chris Dronett, Shane Dronett's wife.
Scientists at the Boston University School of Medicine's Center for the Study of Traumatic Encephalopathy tested Shane's brain tissue and confirmed that  before he died he was suffering with a brain disease -- chronic traumatic encephalopathy -- that seems to afflict football players.
"There is evidence of CTE in his brain making him yet another former NFL player who had definite CTE," said Chris Nowinski, co-director of the traumatic encephalopathy center.
Researchers believe that the battering Shane Dronett took as an NFL lineman -- and the hits he accumulated over two decades of playing -- might explain his brain's deterioration.
"What we know is that by definition, a lineman will have their head hit almost every play of every game and every practice," said Dr. Robert Stern, co-director of the BU CSTE.
He played defense on the 1998 Falcons team that had a storybook Super Bowl run.
"There were times when he'd be slow getting up and kind of try to shake it off and get back in there," said Chris.
Shane's neurosurgeon said that he most likely had the tumor all his life and that the benign growth could not explain his behavior, Chris said.
"He thought people were driving around the house and he was wondering who had been following him that day.
"He had gone into the kitchen, and as soon as I put my hand on the front door, I heard it."
Two years removed from the terrible events of that January morning, Chris finds some solace knowing that a brain disease that could explain why she and her daughters lost Shane.
"I know a lot of the players are against that, but they're young and they haven't seen what I've seen," said Chris.
Chris says that if she could speak directly to players, "I would tell them what I went through, what Shane went through and what other people I know have gone through and then let them make that decision.