This map shows some rebellious regions that have tried to seceed from the United States.
The power got to his head, and he began forcing his rule onto the non-believers, causing some violence between the two factions.
Shortly after the assassination, angry mobs from surrounding islands eventually forced the Strangites from their homes, thus ending the short-lived Kingdom of Beaver Island.
Concern over a perceived lack of interest from the Michigan state government, the people of the Upper Peninsula (U.P.
The secessionist drive lives on today, as numerous grassroots organizations are trying to muster support for another official attempt at an independent U.P.
As the town's population rapidly exploded to 3,000, lawlessness was on the rise -- and the U.S. government was not much help squelching the rampant crime.
Seeing little support from Washington, on April 7, 1850, the townspeople voted to secede from the Union.
Moments later, now-Prime Minister Wardlow symbolically declared war on the U.S. by breaking a stale piece of Cuban bread over the head of a man dressed in a U.S. Navy uniform.
One minute later, Wardlow turned to the Admiral in charge of the U.S.
The community has even minted a series of limited edition one-conch dollar coins that can be used as legal tender while in the Keys.
While the secessionist movement was never very large or pursued through legal channels, that didn't stop A. R. Swickard, the street commissioner of Sheridan, Wyoming, from appointing himself governor of the "state."
Northern California and southern Oregon have been trying to merge since 1852.
On December 4, 1941, Judge John Childs was elected governor of Jefferson in the state's temporary capital of Yreka, California.
Driven by a sense of national obligation, the Jefferson secession was put aside and never really regained momentum.
Therefore, when the Missouri State Highway Commission left Noel off their annual "Family Vacationland" map in 1961, the region was not happy pleased.
So in order to end this mock rebellion, the state declared that state employee retirement pension payments would be suspended for McDonald County, all current state employees would be fired, and all state funding would be withheld.
The bitterness dates back to 1958, when Alaska's citizens were given a simple yes-or-no vote on statehood.
Many Alaskans felt they were denied more options on the issue, prompting a land developer named Joe Vogler to organize a re-vote that would offer Alaskans four possibilities -- remain a territory, become a state, take commonwealth status, or become a separate nation.
More surprisingly, former U.S. interior secretary Wally Hickel got elected governor on the AIP ticket in 1990.
On a brighter note, honoring his wish to never be buried in U.S. soil, Vogler was laid to rest in Canada's Yukon Territory.