The damning report accused Murdoch and his son James of showing "willful blindness" to phone hacking at News of the World, and said the newspaper "deliberately tried to thwart the police investigation" into the illegal activity.
Allegations of widespread illegal eavesdropping by Murdoch journalists in search of stories have shaken the media baron's News Corp. empire and the British political establishment, up to and including Prime Minister David Cameron.
Testifying last week before the Leveson Inquiry, Rupert Murdoch admitted that there had been a "cover-up" of phone hacking at News of the World, which ceased publication last July.
But Louise Mensch, a Conservative member of Parliament who is on the committee with Whittingdale and Watson, said the report had gone too far.
She called the amendment "faintly ridiculous," given Murdoch's decades in the business, and accused the Labour members of the committee of pushing through a "nakedly political" statement.
The report did not accuse either Murdoch of misleading Parliament, but said three of their underlings had done so in testimony to the committee.
"The conclusions of the Committee have, perhaps inevitably, been affected by the fragmented picture which has emerged from the various witnesses over successive appearances and by the constraints within which the Committee had to conduct its procedure," he said.
The full House of Commons will have to rule on whether the three committed contempt by misleading the committee, "and, if so, what punishment should be imposed," the report says.
We deeply regret what took place and have taken our share of responsibility for not rectifying the situation sooner."
He said he was "surprised" by the extent of the contact by the employee, Fred Michel, with the British government as it considered a bid by News Corp. to take full ownership of British Sky Broadcasting.
They have always denied knowing about the scale of the practice, which police say could have affected thousands of people, ranging from celebrities and politicians to crime victims and war veterans.