The vice president's remarks echo those made by other U.S. officials in recent days, as well as many of the nation's foremost allies.
Western leaders were reacting to a growing consensus that the Syrian regime was responsible for an August 21 attack that killed more than 1,300 people, most of them dying from exposure to toxic gases, according to rebel officials.
Foreign Minister Walid Moallem said Tuesday that his government would never use such munitions against its own people, daring those who disagree to present evidence publicly.
And if foreign powers do strike the Middle Eastern nation, its foreign minister said the government and its forces will fight back.
On Monday, U.N. inspectors visited the town of Moadamiyet al-Sham, despite a close call with snipers that left one of their vehicles damaged and an explosion nearby.
And U.S. State Department spokeswoman Marie Harf said it may be too late for a valid inspection of what happened -- saying "too much time has passed" and accusing al-Assad's government of using the U.N. investigation "as a stalling tactic or a charade to hide behind."
Russia is leading the charge internationally, with Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov having said there is no proof yet Syria's government is behind last week's chemical attack.
Moscow bemoaned the U.S. postponement of a meeting that was scheduled for Wednesday in The Hague, where top diplomats from both countries had planned to discuss the war in Syria.
Omran al-Zoubi, Syria's information minister, on Tuesday challenged the United States to "present this proof to the rest of the world" -- claiming that they are asking for trouble if they do not.
"It's about use of chemical weapons and making sure, as a world, we deter their use and we deter the appalling scenes we've all seen on our television screens.
CNN's Greg Botelho, Ben Brumfield, Boriana Milanova, Chris Lawrence, Jim Acosta, Josh Levs, Joe Sterling, Elise Labott, Jill Dougherty and Saskya Vandoorne also contributed to this report.