The 31-year-old is captain of top Japanese club Vegalta Sendai, and also plays for the national side of North Korea -- which in the past has faced allegations of mistreatment of its sports teams after major events.
He does not talk about politics with his North Korean teammates -- "They ask me about cars or soccer magazines I have with me" -- but his own views have been shaped by his upbringing, in which he had to gain acceptance in two very different societies.
"I think 90% of the Vegalta's supporters don't care about whether he is North Korean or Japanese," local businessman Shuichi Kanno, a loyal club fan, told CNN.
The subsequent Korean War led to two bitterly divided states in the North and South, and Korean immigrants left in Japan also split into separate communities.
One of the consequences was special North Korean schools, where the DPRK's flag could be seen flying in the playground, with portraits of leaders such as Kim Il Sung and Kim Jong Il on the classroom walls.
He admits his enthusiasm to impress, to win acceptance as an "outsider" got the better of him as he charged around the pitch in his midfield role.
But it is in club football in the highly competitive J-League where he has made the biggest impression, with Vegalta emerging as challengers for the first division title in recent seasons.
Kanno, a restaurant owner in the coastal town of Kesennuma which was heavily hit by the tsunami, said Ryang and his teammates made all the difference in those terrible times for the area.
However, aside from their interest in the trappings of the affluent lifestyle in Japan, Ryang said his teammates were well acquainted with the action from major football leagues such as the English Premier League and Spain's La Liga.
The squad and head coach Kim Jong Hun were reportedly publicly humiliated by government officials on their return home, though in August 2010 soccer's world governing body halted its investigation into the claims after failing to find enough evidence.
Despite being in the autumn of his career, Ryang has entertained no thoughts of retiring and retains a real love for his sport.
"I need to have a strong presence in the team, and I also need to be trusted by other players," is his philosophy on leadership.
"As I am not a player blessed with speed, I tend to drive a fast car.