"Number one, it was a danger to the children that were playing out there in that heat, and secondly it would save electricity that people would need for air conditioning in their homes," said Molinaro, who'd been forced to sleep at his office that night because of a blackout in his own neighborhood.
In the most recently analyzed data available, utilities reported 36 such outages in 2006 alone.
"It's hard to imagine how anyone could believe that -- in the United States -- we should learn to cope with blackouts," said University of Minnesota Professor Massoud Amin, a leading expert on the U.S. electricity grid.
As he and his father walked near their Midtown Manhattan hotel, they were shocked to see looters smash their way into an electronics store less than 20 yards down the street.
More than 30 years later, the United States is still "operating the most advanced economy in the world with 1960s and 70s technology," said Amin.
By April of 2013 ConEd hopes to install a "smart" automated self-healing system aimed at preventing the burnout of large feeder cables during peak demand periods -- such as heat waves.
On the other end of the spectrum, utilities in New York Pennsylvania and New Jersey averaged 214 minutes of total interruptions each year.
Without mentioning specific regions, Lauby said utilities are "making sure the generation and the transmission are available to help support those consumers."
It's not really a big red button on the wall, but it is a mechanism that allows an operator to control tens of thousands of home thermostats.
This way, thousands of power-gulping air conditioners can be cycled off for a short time when electricity was needed elsewhere.
"It feels a bit like the utilities are jumping the gun and they're trying to put these meters in before the rest of the pieces of the so-called smart grid are in place and before we even know that the smart meters are going to have advantages commensurate with the cost," said electricity consumer advocate Mindy Spatt of The Utility Reform Network.
High-tech manufacturers want to locate their factories in places where electricity is most reliable, said Carvallo.