(CNN) -- Blasting off from Earth and hurtling through space at thousands of miles an hour, it takes astronauts three days to reach the moon -- a tiny distance in a universe measured in light years, but a fantastic voyage on a human scale.
Set to replace the space shuttles, Constellation builds on the legacy of Apollo -- the program that landed humans on the moon six times in the late 1960s and early '70s -- but incorporates modern technologies and influences.
It may also surprise a generation accustomed to watching the shuttles carry both humans and heavy cargo, like the Hubble Space Telescope, into space.
Arriving at their destination, the astronauts could land anywhere on the moon, including the far side and the poles -- a big improvement over Apollo, which limited landing sites mostly to the equator on the near side of the moon.
At this point, NASA is favoring the heavily cratered south pole because of its scientific interest and the possible presence of water ice, Olson said.
"We're going for a long-term sustained human presence that's affordable and safe and built so that we can use the moon as a stepping stone to Mars and near-Earth asteroids and other exciting locations in the solar system."
They argue such a mission would open new frontiers for humans, answer key questions about life in the universe and reignite excitement about the space program.
Olson counters that NASA is looking to go to Mars, but must first tackle the enormous challenges of safely sending humans to the Red Planet -- a journey that would take 6 months and span more than 30 million miles.
But Mars exploration advocates say the country is now much closer to being able to send humans to Mars than it was to sending them to the moon in 1961, when President Kennedy called for a lunar mission by the end of that decade.
"For NASA to make as its central goal repeating technical accomplishments it did 50 years before is a complete abandonment of its purpose."
"Relying on the Russians between when we're retiring the shuttle and having the Constellation program flying is something that I'm not very proud of," said former Kennedy Space Center Director Bob Crippen, who piloted the first space shuttle mission in 1981.
However, that is the fiscal reality that we're in and we're doing our absolute best to mitigate it," Olson said.