(CNN) -- Drew ushered Jackie into a bedroom, shutting the door behind them.
In the paragraphs that follow, writer Sabrina Rubin Erdely gives excruciatingly painful details of what allegedly happened to Jackie, a freshman at the University of Virginia, over the course of the next three hours as she was allegedly gang-raped by members of Drew's fraternity.
The article continues: Jackie's friends, two guys and one woman, ultimately decided she shouldn't be taken to the hospital or report the rape because if she did, "her reputation will be shot for the next four years."
On the day the Rolling Stone article about Jackie's alleged rape was published, Caitlin Kelly, a Web producer at The New Yorker, wrote a string of tweets imagining what it would look like if people responded to her wallet being stolen the way they respond to rape.
"Are you sure that you didn't just GIVE him your wallet, and now you're embarrassed about it?
Just curious, just trying to get a better sense of what's going on here.
In the Rolling Stone article, Jackie describes how she ran into Drew (not his real name) during her lifeguard shift at a UVA pool, just two weeks after her alleged rape. "
Jackie reported her rape, plus two other similar gang rapes she learned about at the same Phi Kappa Psi fraternity, to Dean Nicole Eramo, head of UVA's Sexual Misconduct Board.
On the other hand, Drew, as of the writing of the Rolling Stone article, was set to graduate, entirely untarnished -- as were the other men involved in the alleged rape.
"Rapists make us less uncomfortable than rape victims," Roxanne Gay recently wrote in The Guardian.
Rape is so horribly common that talking about it, exploring why it happens, investigating the culture and context of it, would seem to indict every aspect of a school like the University of Virginia that apparently has not done enough to address the problem.
Universities everywhere should take serious steps to address sexual assault on campuses rather than trying to cover them up.