But as President Barack Obama unofficially rings in the sixth year of his administration with Tuesday's State of the Union address, another intriguing struggle may be emerging -- between moderates and progressives on the Democratic side.
More specifically, as Democrats look toward the future, there's sharp disagreement over whether to stick with a Bill Clinton-style centrist agenda or embrace the unabashed left-wing populism most notably personified by Sen. Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts and New York Mayor Bill de Blasio.
Whichever side wins this fight, one thing is already clear: Six years after flocking to the banner of Obama's "hope and change" candidacy, a lot of progressives are disappointed in the current Democratic administration.
Obama "was so enthusiastic and identified with saving these programs for people who really need them.
"Shareholders have a right to know how corporate resources are spent, and, even more importantly, policymakers and the public should be aware of your contributions and evaluate the work of the think tanks accordingly," she wrote.
Earlier this month, a coalition of 18 environmental organizations sent the White House a letter warning that Obama's "all of the above" energy strategy -- one that embraces so-called "green energy" and more domestic extraction of traditional fossil fuels -- is unacceptable for those sounding the alarm about climate change.
In a speech in December to the left-leaning Center for American Progress, the President made clear that America's growing wealth disparity would be a focus of his remaining time in office.
While divided Democrats will soon begin their search for a new standard-bearer, political observers warn not to make too much of the differences now bubbling to the surface.
Schiller also noted that around the dawn of the last century, the Republican Party wrestled with a similar split on economic issues.
"History tells us that danger lurks for both the Democrats and the Republicans if they fail to heal their internal divisions," she warned.