Both judgments were offered Friday on the dozens of Russian trucks that have rolled into eastern Ukraine, a move Russian leaders cast as necessary to address a humanitarian crisis and a Ukrainian official characterized as an "invasion" of his nation by its mighty neighbor to the east.
However, the Red Cross said it wasn't accompanying them due to the "volatile security situation" -- a reference to continued fighting between pro-Russian rebels and Ukrainian forces.
"We call this a direct invasion for the first time under cynical cover of the Red Cross," said Valentyn Nalyvaychenko, the head of Ukraine's security service.
He further criticized what he characterized as "Kiev's blatant attempts to hinder the delivery of Russian humanitarian aid" into southeast Ukraine, implying he had no choice but to act.
"The disregard of international humanitarian principles raises further questions about whether the true purpose of the aid convoy is to support civilians or to resupply armed separatists," Rasmussen said in a statement.
The pair concurred, too, that the convoy "is a further provocation and a violation of Ukraine's sovereignty" and called for the stop "of Russian personnel, military equipment and armored vehicles into eastern Ukraine."
This view was seconded by Deputy National Security Adviser Ben Rhodes, who deemed the convoy -- which he said his nation and its allies are tracking closely -- "as part of a pattern of flagrant violation of Ukrainian sovereignty."
There were up to 18,000 such "combat-ready" troops on Friday, a significant increase from previous public estimates by the Pentagon, according to a U.S. defense official with direct access to the latest information.
Russia has denied any direct support for the rebels while voicing sympathy for their fight for self-determination, saying that Kiev is in the wrong for its actions that endanger civilians -- including many ethnic Russians.
He told reporters that Russia received "official acceptance by Kiev authorities" for the convoy, and that Moscow is staying in touch with Ukrainian officials to make sure there are no problems in the process of distribution of the aid.