Using only the sun's energy, the fan pumps hot air out of the attic -- lowering cooling bills -- and doesn't have to be in direct sunlight to work.
Keith's company, SunRise Solar, steadily grew to the point that he couldn't keep up with the influx of orders.
And in 2008, his success attracted the attention of the soon-to-be next president of the United States, Barack Obama.
"He said he was with the Obama transition team looking for small companies," Keith recalled.
Shortly after he was inaugurated, Obama held a town hall meeting in the economically devastated city of Elkhart, Indiana.
Keith's success story provided good publicity for the White House which called again and again, using Keith to underscore the Obama administration's goal of pushing America towards new sources of clean energy.
There's the photo of him with the president and Vice President Joe Biden in Kokomo, another Indiana city hard hit by the recession, as well as an appearance with Sen. Sherrod Brown of Ohio and many others.
Strange bedfellows, perhaps, but it was a feelgood story of what one American could do in a time when the recession was strangling so many.
It is friendly to the environment; it is creating jobs."
While 95 percent of Keith's fans are American-made, he has yet to find a U.S. company that can make the small customized solar panels that make his fans run.
Then Keith turned to a New York company but the quality was so bad that he was replacing the defective parts faster than he could sell the fans.
The policy is intended to thwart China from undercutting prices and flooding the U.S. market with cheaper solar panels.
In my estimation it shouldn't be geared toward small niche markets like mine," Keith said.
He said he has sat by and watched companies like the now bankrupt Solyndra run through taxpayers' money and not return on the government's investment.
So he went back to the well one more time, pleading with Greg Nelson, deputy director of the White House Office of Public Engagement who Keith said had been his contact with the Obama administration.
That was nearly a month ago and Keith is still waiting.
The spokesman stated that the tariff "highlights the degree to which solar panel manufacturers have faced unfair competition from countries like China" and the president's move to impose a tax on Chinese-made goods is a way to establish "a level playing field with China for American businesses and workers."
Watch Anderson Cooper 360° weeknights 10pm ET.