"If you're asking me do I want to compete again, the answer is hell yes.
In part one of the interview, which aired Thursday, Armstrong admitted, unequivocally and for the first time, that he used performance-enhancing drugs on the way to seven Tour de France wins.
But, he said: "I'm not sure that I deserve a death penalty," comparing his punishment to the lesser punishments of other cyclists who doped.
Armstrong, in the first part of the interview, talked about the culture of cycling at the time he competed, telling Winfrey that doping was widespread then and just as much "part of the job" as water bottles and tire pumps.
Throughout both parts of the interview with Winfrey, Armstrong spoke steadily and showed little emotion.
Appearing to hold back tears, Armstrong said he confessed to the three oldest children over the recent holiday break.
"A partial confession is sort of the pattern here," he said.
Armstrong described his years of denial as "one big lie that I repeated a lot of times."
"He's made the first step," Hamilton told CNN's Piers Morgan before the second interview aired.
"If he is sincere in his desire to correct his past mistakes, he will testify under oath about the full extent of his doping activities," USADA CEO Travis Tygart said.
After winning various legs of the Tour de France, Armstrong's sporting career ground to a halt in 1996, when he was diagnosed with cancer.
His breakthrough came in 1999, and he didn't stop as he reeled off seven straight wins in his sport's most prestigious race.
In response, the cyclist accused the organization of trying to "dredge up discredited" allegations and filed a lawsuit in federal court trying to halt the case.
They include Betsy Andreu, wife of fellow cyclist Frankie Andreu, who said she overheard Armstrong acknowledge to a doctor treating him for cancer in 1996 that he had used performance-enhancing drugs.
CNN's Greg Botelho, Ben Brumfield, Carol Cratty, Joseph Netto and George Howell contributed to this report.