That conclusion is based on security camera video obtained by CNN that shows black smoke starting to rise from the crash scene 60 seconds after it shows the light pole and a tree falling.
The answer might be clearer when the coroner's office releases its preliminary findings of the autopsies of the remains of two men -- presumed to be Walker and friend Roger Rodas, a coroner's officer said.
Video  obtained by CNN Tuesday from a security camera posted on a building on the opposite side of the street from the crash does not show the Porsche Carerra GT crashing along a business park street in Valencia, California, Saturday afternoon.
Every night since the crash fans have gathered and left mementos near the spot on a wide business park road in Valencia, California, about 30 miles north of Hollywood, according to Walker's publicist and CNN affiliate KCAL.
"My heart is hurting so bad no one can make me believe this is real," the singer and actor posted on Instagram.
The actor had told his father that he wanted to take a hiatus from acting to spend more time with his 15-year-old daughter, Meadow, the elder Walker said.
They asked that instead of flowers, people make donations to his charity, Reach Out Worldwide.
"It's comforting for them to know that the son, brother, and father they love so much is equally adored, respected, and appreciated by so many," the statement said.
But investigators have since ruled out the presence of a second vehicle and the theory that the Porsche was drag racing, a spokesman said Monday afternoon.
Antonio Holmes told the Santa Clarita Valley Signal newspaper that he was at the charity event when Walker and Rodas left for a ride in the Porsche.
We all ran around and jumped in cars and grabbed fire extinguishers and immediately went to the vehicle.
Employees, friends of the shop.
"What the first explosion was -- I don't know if their tire blew up, because it sounded like a tire blew on the car," Torp told CNN Monday.
Torp told CNN that he looked closely at the skid marks and concluded they were left by a car with smaller tires.
"I don't think the soldier realized how expensive those rings are, about $10,000."
"During the holiday season, many economically disadvantaged children from around the world are faced with the same dilemma year after year; the lacking of joy and cheer," the invitation read.
"Our goal here is to be able to provide aid to these less fortunate children in hopes of helping them grow up to become confident, responsible and productive young adults."
Walker also is the star of "Hours," an independent film scheduled to be released December 13 about a father struggling to keep his newborn infant alive in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina in New Orleans.
When Oliver Reed died in the middle of the production of "Gladiator," the rest of his scenes included a digitally produced image of his face on another actor's body, Tom O'Neil, editor of the show business website Goldderby.com, told CNN.