They were strangers on January 15, 2009, when they boarded the fateful flight that would become known as the "Miracle on the Hudson."
"The first time people meet you, they want to hear the sensational part" of the crash, says Ben, 39.
With the nation in the thick of recession, she scooped up bargains for herself.
Later, when they boarded, he noticed her again, coming down the aisle.
It was one of those fleeting moments every single person knows: You see an intriguing stranger, hope for the best, then move on.
About 90 seconds into the flight, the plane -- traveling at 250 mph and carrying 150 passengers and five crew -- struck a flock of geese.
"The whole back of the engine was pretty much engulfed in flames, just shooting out of the back," he says.
With neither engine working, a silence fell over the jet as it glided through the skies.
"The most harrowing thing I'd ever heard in my life," Ben recalls.
If I die, what a depressing message that would be to leave on a message machine, she thought.
But her focus on career meant there wasn't much time for relationships while jet-setting around for work.
Her bird phobia was rooted in days on the farm, where her grandmother kept chickens.
When she traveled to New York on business, the abundance of pigeons sometimes terrified her.
As the plane glided silently through the air, Ben peeked out the window every once in a while.
It'll be easier for rescuers to find my body and identify me, she thought.
When things calmed down and she knew she would be rescued, she found comic relief in what brought the plane down.
Inside the plane, a bottleneck of passengers blocked some exits.
In the media blitz that followed, Laura noticed Ben for the first time on television.
Six months after the crash, when about 20 survivors and their families gathered at a home near Charlotte, Ben and Laura met in person for the first time.
They shared secrets, their views on life's opportunities.
They wonder why they survived when, a month later, all 50 people aboard a Buffalo commuter jet died.
Weeks after the flight, the airline returned salvaged personal belongings to survivors.
Four other boxes of returned items sit unopened in a spare bedroom.
They're speaking about their relationship, Laura says, because too much news dwells on the negative.
"Live, laugh, love and dance like tomorrow's not guaranteed."