The spark that began the revolution was something called Europe: a trade agreement with the European Union that many Ukrainians saw as a chance to enter a world of free trade rather than government syndicates, and the rule of law rather than overwhelming corruption.
Then came the businessmen, the professionals, the people who had hoped to make an honest living, but found themselves thwarted by unpredictable taxes and corruption.
In December, hundreds of thousands of people, from all parts of the country and all walks of life, were on the streets.
Last week a truce was declared, and a day of mourning announced for the protesters who died.
The Ukrainian protesters did not do what most of us would have done.
The Polish and German foreign ministers arrived to negotiate the transition that many people had wanted for weeks: a weakening of the Yanukovych's power and accelerated elections.
Parliament convened, and in these last few days began a very thorough reform of the entire political system.
Ukraine is now once again a parliamentary democracy, with presidential elections scheduled for May, and an alert population preserving the peace and watchful of its own newfound rights.
Russia has exercised influence in Ukraine by promising cash: The promise of 15 billion euros preceded the dictatorship laws, the promise of the release of a 2 billion tranche preceded the mass shootings.
Indeed, the men and women of the Maidan, although they want their country inside the West, were extremely disappointed with Western inaction during their revolution.
People who risked death for the values we all claim to treasure, people who have brought a major nation back from dictatorship and to democracy deserve more than loans that will require immediate economic austerity.
Direct financial assistance would have to be conditional upon further reforms that ensure the restoration and the preservation of the rule of law.
On the other side, among the revolutionaries are radicals who may not be satisfied by the compromises that end any revolution.
The cause of the Ukrainian protesters was not to change the world, but only to change their world.
If we don't understand the revolution in Ukraine, then we miss something special and unusual: a chance to support democracy.