Manila, Philippines (CNN) -- As the bodies of eight tourists killed in a bus hijacking in the Philippines arrived in Hong Kong, China, on Wednesday, the Hong Kong government urged citizens not to take their grief and anger out on Filipinos despite "the poor way" the hijacking was handled by authorities.
Two of three remaining hospitalized victims had been expected to be released from Philippine hospitals in time for the flight, but it was not known if they were on the plane that landed in Hong Kong.
Hong Kong's Chief Executive, Donald Tsang,  was to lead a ceremony to raise the flag and lower it to half-staff on  Thursday, and a three-minute period of silence was scheduled for 8 a.m.,  according to the Hong Kong government.
Witnesses said Mendoza was initially willing to cooperate, but he was shot dead by police after authorities say he became violent and started shooting hostages.
The gunman had previously released nine of the hostages, including a mother and her three children, a man with diabetes and two photographers.
The government's Home Affairs Department has set up 18 condolence points around Hong Kong to allow people to mourn the victims and offer messages of sympathy.
At the Hong Kong Management Association David Li Kwok Po College, students and faculty remembered Jessie Leung, 14, who was killed along with her father and sister.
"We do not want to pass sweeping judgment or make early conclusions except to say that our intention to peacefully end this hostage drama was spoiled when the hostage-taker suddenly exhibited violent behavior and began shooting the hostages," Philippine National Police Chief Director Gen. Jesus A. Verzosa said Tuesday in a statement.
Gordon said survivors said the situation inside the bus changed dramatically toward the end of the 10-hour standoff.
He was telling everybody he was not going to harm [them].
Moreno said that Mendoza's brother was arrested during the standoff because he was "guilty of conspiring with his brother" and allegedly helped instigate the shooting.