The rescuers "were able to release him whole and healthy" and take him to an IDF field hospital in stable condition for further treatment," he said.
A massive blaze consumed a textile factory in Port-au-Prince Friday night as U.N. workers tried to contain the flames and spare nearby buildings.
More than $355 million in donations in the United States alone has been raised for the relief effort, but stacks of aid -- baby formula, pain medication, antibiotics and other much-needed supplies -- are sitting on the tarmac and in warehouses at the airport in Port-au-Prince, the capital.
A 5.9-magnitude earthquake Wednesday was the strongest aftershock of the week -- enough to cause considerable damage, the U.S. Geological Survey said, though the extent of damage that any earthquake causes depends on factors such as its depth, its proximity to dense population centers and the strength of structures where it hits.
The death toll is estimated at 200,000, according to the European Union, whose commissioner for development and humanitarian aid, Karel De Gucht, got a firsthand view of the situation in Port-au-Prince this week.
The north pier remained unusable, and the south pier is the smaller of the two.
To improve air traffic, the U.S. military said Wednesday it had obtained landing rights at the Dominican Republic's air base at San Isidro, about 220 kilometers (135 miles) east of Port-au-Prince.
In the meantime, working under adverse conditions with limited supplies, medical teams have been forced to improvise.
"Most of those individuals are critical care types of injuries," he told CNN's "American Morning."
"I think when we're totally mature, which will be in the next two to three days, we believe that we'll be able to push about 150 patients through to the ship and off the ship every day for surgical care, and the government of Haiti is giving us guidance exactly on where those patients will receive their follow-on care," he said, adding that officials hope the international community and the United Nations will oversee that process.
Puerto Rican authorities say that when it arrives in Haiti on Monday morning, it will be the single largest shipment of aid to arrive there to date.
At least 9,288 Americans and some of their family members in Haiti have been evacuated, according to the U.S. State Department, though the whereabouts of nearly 5,000 other Americans remain unknown.