Days after the bruising fight at the end of 2012 to avert the fiscal cliff that divided the House GOP conference -- as well as his own leadership team -- a dozen House Republicans broke with Boehner by not supporting him for speaker in the public vote on the House floor.
Boehner succeeded at tamping down the public splits among House Republicans -- at least for now -- and adjusted the expectations for his members.
At the retreat, Boehner tapped former 2012 GOP vice presidential candidate Paul Ryan of Wisconsin, popular among conservative ranks, to walk members through the big fights ahead.
Acknowledging that another contentious face-off with the White House over the debt limit wasn't likely to end well for them, Boehner worked with a small group of members that included Ryan and other leading conservatives to come up with a plan to postpone that fight.
Instead, their legislation conditions the increase in the debt limit on a requirement that the Senate pass a budget -- something conservatives complain the upper chamber has failed to do the past four years.
He also pointed out that the move reflected a commitment by Boehner to avoid one-on-one-negotiations with the president on these issues in the future, and instead chart a course internally first.
The tone coming out of the retreat signals that leaders convinced many of those pushing for broader changes that they need to rethink how realistic it is to send proposals out of the House only to hit a wall in the Senate.
Rep. Steve Scalise of Louisiana, who heads the Republican Study Committee, a group of fiscal conservatives, was part of the group Boehner tapped, along with Ryan, to devise the three-month debt-ceiling extension.
The GOP retreat also featured a panel with pollsters who showed internal numbers highlighting the party's deficit of support among women and minorities.
Rep. Greg Walden, who runs the House GOP 2014 campaign operation to retain and expand their majority, told reporters he tapped Rep. Jamie Herrera Beutler, the youngest female House member and a Hispanic, to help with outreach.