Then comes the conversion to or rediscovery of Islam, and the adoption of a jihadist mindset, fed by media and online coverage of the West's involvement in wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, and by the well-oiled propaganda machine of groups like ISIS.
Few of these men have a deep understanding of Salafism, the deeply conservative brand of Islam that's the philosophical underpinning of groups like al Qaeda, and jihad; their writings are often incoherent.
They get into drugs and petty crime in their late teens or early 20s and often cut contacts with their families.
He converted to Islam two years ago and like many others appears to have been seduced by the online messaging of terrorist groups.
Richard Reid, who became known as the "shoe bomber" after he tried to blow up a trans-Atlantic flight in 2001, was also a troubled young man -- impressionable, dabbling in minor crime and drugs and ending up in a young offenders' detention center before converting to Islam.
After his release he too was influenced by radical preachers in London (as was another in the group).
Whether he was influenced by others or self-radicalized is unclear, but his path to militancy was rapid and dramatic.
Like Baryalei, he also joined ISIS, even tweeting a photograph of himself holding the severed head of one of the slain Western hostages.
De-radicalization programs, such as those in the UK and Canada, have recognized the importance of identifying such individuals before they can do harm.
But as Public Safety Canada acknowledges in its latest report "family members, peers, religious and community figures, teachers and medical and social service providers are crucial partners in recognizing and responding to the subtle indicators of radicalization."
In some countries community leaders fear the balance is tipping more toward surveillance and tougher laws, to the neglect of prevention programs and community outreach.
The British government has abandoned most of the ambitious Prevent program launched in 2005 to "increase the resilience of communities to violent extremism" -- the hearts and minds outreach (after groups that were funded ended up being taken over by extremists) and opted for a greater reliance on law enforcement.
But given resource-stretched governments -- scarred by the unpopularity of controversial outreach programs and struggling to keep tabs on "extremist travelers" to Syria and Iraq -- are increasingly reaching for law enforcement tools to prevent terror coming to their cities, tracking the "lone wolves" is unlikely to get any easier.