And even though Julie Chen went easy on him during his exit interview, we didn't think he should be able to walk away without answering some questions.
You seemed when you gave your final speech to the house to know that it was kind of a fait accompli.
I'm sure you haven't had time to go back and watch, but it almost seemed like Helen and Elissa might've been ready to make a deal with you.
I told her beforehand to vote with the house so that she could be in a better position.
I feel like there was a lot of high emotions, and that house is a pressure cooker, so I think it just made everything a little bit worse.
EW: I think had Kaitlin not used her power of veto, you both would actually still be in the house.
From what we were told, if she didn't use it, she would be going home, so we felt that it would be stupid for her not to use it.
McGuire: Yeah, I was warned a little bit about some of the things.
I've just been watching the show, but there have been a lot of people that have been watching the feeds, and they've been reporting things that several the contestants — among you — have said and there have been some homophobic and racist and sexist things that you've said.
EW: Well, I don't know how much some of these words can be twisted or misinterpreted.
EW: When we talked to Nick after he got voted out, he said that on some level when you're playing a game you don't want to rock the boat, but then you don't want to be that person who just stands by idly while someone is making such racial slurs and just saying some really unfathomable things.
There's probably some times I should've stepped in and said, "Calm down," but it's a really crazy time.
It's really completely different than you would ever think, so I just sat back and enjoyed the show, I guess.
McGuire: Yeah, I'm going back to the boat.
Amanda's got a man at home, so we'll see about that.
McGuire: She's got a boyfriend at home.
McGuire: I walked in this cocky, arrogant man, and I walked out a little bit humbler.
I think that they made the right move by getting rid of you now because you could've just dominated in competitions.
See the original story at EW.com.