But come Saturday, countless millions of racing fans the world over will be in mourning for one of the greatest racehorses the sport has ever seen.
Unbeaten at two, three and four years old, Frankel's career yet seems too short for a talent that burned so bright.
But Frankel's last race will also be his toughest yet, pitting him against the second best horse in the world on rating, Cirrus des Aigles, winner of this race last year and looking in imperious form after a stunning victory in his native France over the Prix de l'Arc de Triomphe weekend.
Ascot has already witnessed what was arguably the greatest win of Frankel's career -- maybe even the greatest win of any racehorse's career -- his 11-length victory in this year's Queen Anne Stakes at this year's Royal Ascot.
Frankel duly caught him, but the exertion nearly took its toll, and with a furlong to go Frankel's stride was shortening.
He just held off 20-1 shot Zoffany to win by three quarters of a length -- the smallest winning margin of his career apart from his maiden win over Nathaniel (a multiple Group 1 winner in his own right who, incidentally, will also be lining up against his old foe on Saturday).
In a vintage year for racing that has included not only the daring of Black Caviar, the thrilling possibility of the first Triple Crown winner in four decades in Camelot, the bravado of the little German filly Danedream to capture the King George and Queen Elizabeth Stakes, Frankel's final curtain call has been designed to be the climax to one of sport's great narratives.
Henry Cecil, who has been knighted by the Queen, was unable to attend Frankel's brilliant win in the Sussex Stakes at Glorious Goodwood earlier season as he was receiving ongoing treatment for stomach cancer.
Long after the applause has died down around Ascot and the last champagne has been popped, Cecil will begin the work of easing Frankel down in preparation for his new life away from the track.
But if they inherit just some of their sire's speed, his aggression and his indomitable will to win, a little bit of Frankel's magic will live on.