(CNN) -- Another State of the Union address, another road trip for President Barack Obama to push now-familiar policies that he said he would pursue on his own if Congress won't cooperate.
"But for more than 200 years, we have put those things aside and placed our collective shoulder to the wheel of progress."
There were the now familiar calls to recalibrate the tax code, spend more to rebuild roads and bridges, bolster education and avoid war if at all possible.
According to a snap CNN/ORC International poll, 44% of respondents had a "very positive" response to Obama's speech, while 32% described a "somewhat positive" response and 22% didn't like it at all.
It's an optimistic goal for a President with a 43% approval rating entering his sixth year in office and facing a determined opposition in the Republican-led House of Representatives with congressional elections looming in November.
On issue after issue, he invited Congress to work with him but said he also would go it alone.
"We're working on a step-by-step solution to immigration reform by first securing our borders and making sure America will always attract the best, brightest, and hardest working from around the world," she said in describing the more limited GOP approach to the comprehensive Senate measure that includes a path to legal status for immigrants living illegally in the country.
On another major reform issue, Obama chided Republicans for trying to undermine his signature health care law that passed in 2010 without GOP support.
Obama said he will order the U.S. Treasury to create a new federal retirement savings account called MyRA, a savings bond that would guarantee "a decent return with no risk of losing what you put in."
He urged Congress to work with him to close "wasteful, complicated loopholes that punish businesses investing here" and instead "lower tax rates for businesses that create jobs right here at home."
"This is definitely the President's agenda and has been for some time now," said CNN Chief Political Correspondent Candy Crowley, who added it was hard to see how Republicans would respond any differently than before and therefore, it was hard to see big things happening in 2014.