"You just have to be learned enough to understand the symbols of drunkenness."
Even so, he appeared surprised when police showed up at his house in Kapa'a, Hawaii, to arrest him on charges of consuming alcohol while operating a vehicle and driving without a license.
"Our traffic laws are in place for a reason, and Mr. Godbehere's blatant disregard for those laws is the type of behavior that won't be tolerated," said Kaua'i Police Chief Darryl Perry in a statement.
One expert told CNN that anything posted online is material the government can use as evidence to arrest and charge a person.
"It's like that old saying," said professor Susan Rozelle, who teaches evidence and criminal law at Stetson University College of Law in Gulfport, Florida.
The case caught fire on both conventional media and social media after a crime blogger and former Steubenville resident, Alexandria Goddard, uncovered some of the photos, videos and messages posted online about the incident and accused the town of giving the boys preferential treatment because they played on the football team.
Early on the morning of January 1 of this year, police in Astoria, Oregon, responded to a call about a hit-and-run on a residential street.
In an interview with ABC affiliate KATU-TV, the owner of one of the damaged vehicles said what everyone watching the case was probably thinking: "Why would you post that?
Cox-Brown told KATU that his Facebook status update was "a big joke" and that he sideswiped the cars because of icy conditions.
"I guess alcohol got the best of us and we completely forgot what was going on at one point but in my opinion that makes us all winners!"
The group also posted photos, some with blurred faces, of members chugging beers on the trains and urinating at the subway stations -- both violations of city ordinances.
Canada and the United States have similar protections against suspects incriminating themselves while in custody, but voluntary gloating or confessions online are free game for law enforcement, legal experts said.
In another case of social media consequences in Montreal, a woman was arrested earlier this month after she posted a photo on Instagram of graffiti she spotted on a city wall that depicted a high-ranking Montreal police officer with a bullet hole in his head.
Legal experts say photos and videos, whether posted publicly online or obtained in a more discreet manner by the police, have to meet the same criteria: They must be authenticated, meaning the prosecutors must prove the images are what they seem and have not been altered or staged.
But in the cases of Godbehere, in Hawaii, and Cox-Brown, in Oregon, the incriminating posts put them in the awkward position of having to disavow their own words, experts say.