One of the two brothers suspected in the slaughter at the offices of a satirical magazine on Wednesday recently spent time in Yemen getting weapons training with one of the most dangerous Al-Qaeda affiliates in the world, US officials briefed on the matter told CNN's Barbara Starr.
Instead, homegrown radicals inspired by or affiliated with jihadist organizations are launching more limited strikes that still achieve the core aim of terrorism: death, widespread fear and panic.
These are "actors who may lurk within our society, that could strike with little notice, commit an act of violence because they have been inspired by things they have seen on the Internet, social media, in literature, without accepting a direct order from ... a terrorist organization."
Republican Rep. Michael McCaul of Texas, chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee, said the sheer simplicity of the attack in Paris, in which masked gunmen drove up to the Charlie Hebdo offices and started spraying automatic weapons was particularly disturbing.
So far, there are no signs that Wednesday's attack will lead to a heightened risk of terrorist actions in the United States.
But even if the attackers in Paris are not veterans of jihadism, they still may reflect a troubling evolution in the nature of terrorism, one that is especially hard for national security officials to combat.
"This really is a pattern," said Mike Rogers, the former chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, who is now a CNN national security analyst.
Sanderson also said videos of the assailants on the streets of Paris during the attack suggested they had some level of sophistication, a factor that will also alarm U.S.
"Some of the messaging has been focused on 'do what you can to help the cause from where you are,'"  said Kifayat, now with the German Marshall Fund of the United States.
"As a general matter, we are very mindful of the threat from foreign fighters and the threat and the need to try to counter some of the extremist ideology that ISIL is propagating using some pretty sophisticated social media strategies," said White House spokesman Josh Earnest.
"We have seen, just in the last few months, whether it is in Sydney or in Ottawa or in other places, that the perceived successes of ISIS in holding territory in Iraq and in Syria have had a galvanizing effect on those with radical tendencies," he said.