In a nondescript hotel ballroom last month at the South by Southwest Interactive festival, Andras Forgacs offered a rare glimpse at the sci-fi future of food.
He is among a new breed of youthful entrepreneurs who are applying tech-startup principles -- innovation, efficiency, data-driven processes -- to address the growing challenges of global food production.
"But there's a lot of disagreement about what our products are.
"Cultured meat is so new and such a radically different way of making meat to what has gone before," said Neil Stephens, a research scientist at the University of Cardiff in Wales who has been studying lab-engineered food products.
On top of that, global demand for meat is expected to double over the next 40 years, placing further strain on the planet's natural resources.
Using a formula developed at the University of Missouri, Beyond Meat takes plant protein from soy and peas and applies heating, cooling and pressure to realign it so that its structure resembles meat tissue.
Launched in 2011 by Forgacs and his father Gabor Forgacs, a biophysicist, the company plans to make cultured leather products before tackling the thornier process of growing meat.
To make cultured beef, Modern Meadow takes muscle cells from a steer and places them in a liquid or gel containing amino acids, vitamins, minerals and sugars -- ingredients that cells feed on -- to stimulate tissue growth.
That's still a lot cheaper than the world's first lab-grown burger, which was engineered by a scientist in the Netherlands and served to food critics at a news conference last August in London.
There's the issue of health: While lab-grown meat would likely be freer of bacteria and pesticides, its production also may require the use of artificial growth hormones.
And if cultured meat doesn't taste good, nobody will try it more than once.
No laboratory product will ever be able to take the place of cattlemen and women or the dedication they have to the customer, the consumer, or to rural America," said Chase Adams, spokesman for the National Cattlemen's Beef Association.
Stephens, the University of Cardiff researcher, believes the idea of cultured meat is still too new for most people to wrap their heads around.