One month after the song's April release, "Bridesmaids" -- a movie seen as a risky box office proposition when it first came out -- landed in theaters, drawing in audiences (of both genders) in droves.
Kona Gallagher writes for CliqueClack.com and pointed out that, "We still have a long way to go in the way women are portrayed, especially in movies.
If there is one big star to come out of this TV season, it is Zooey Deschanel, whose show "New Girl" has beaten lead-in "Glee" in the ratings on several occasions.
"I think probably (after) 'Bridesmaids,' there's just sort of a feeling of more trust from the people in charge that women actually want to see shows and movies that are written and created by women as opposed to sort of shows created by men that women are just supposed to like," Meriwether told reporters in November.
"It's very telling to the times -- our dealing with being broke and being in that time where it's hard to get a job, and I think people can relate to it," Behrs said.
Indeed, one thing that sets "2 Broke Girls" apart is the bawdy dialogue between the two stars.
Indeed, one only needs to say the two words "Tina Fey" (or "Amy Poehler", for that matter), to realize this moment has been a long time coming.
"What's really interesting to me about the surge of women in television and film comedies is that a large part of it is really driven by 'Saturday Night Live,'" said Gallagher.
It's just kind of surprising to me because if I knew people felt that way I think I would have thrown in the towel a long time ago," she said.
The idea was this family without a mom moves into a town that is dominated and run by moms," said Emily Kapnek, creator of the show, who like Behrs was also a big Carol Burnett fan growing up.
"I think you're getting roles for women that are written by women that come at it differently and feel in some ways more authentic," said Kapnek.
I think right now, we have so many female show runners, you have a more undiluted feed to what their point of view is and I think people are identifying with that and it feels different."
As for right now, "New Girl's" Meriwether said that it's great to see the diversity of shows by and about women being produced.