(CNN) -- Gary Johnson says there are three keys to his campaign being successful: he needs you to know who he is, he needs to be on the ballot in as many states as possible and he needs other libertarians to support him.
But the fact he is even included in a poll is enough to get Johnson excited.
The last third-party presidential candidate to make a significant run at the White House was Ross Perot in 1992.
He was seen by some as siphoning votes away from Democratic candidate Al Gore, who ultimately lost to George W. Bush in the closest election in modern U.S. history.
The third-party candidate is optimistic and is devoting large sums of his own money to make this campaign possible -- much of which came from Big J Enterprises, his mechanical contracting business in New Mexico.
Before being asked, Johnson brings the ballot access issue up to differentiate himself from other third-party candidates, like the Green Party's Jill Stein.
Fighting for ballot access and libertarian support are all for naught, however, unless Johnson is able to introduce himself to the American people, his campaign admits.
He is taking his message on the road, hitting 16 college towns around the country in the next few weeks.
It is unusual that the Libertarian candidate for president is being forced to court other libertarians, but that's exactly what Johnson has to do with the unflinchingly loyal base of libertarians who support former Republican hopeful Ron Paul.
Libertarians are a unique set of voters.
When making his pitch to Paul supporters, Johnson lists a litany of positions on which he and the former candidate agree.
"Gary is very much in line with Dr. Paul on many issues," said Jordan Page, a performer who traveled with the Paul campaign.
Johnson endorsed Paul in 2008, when the Texas congressman was running for president, and when Johnson dropped out of the race as a Republican in 2012, he urged his supporters to vote for Paul in the Republican primaries.
With Johnson as the party's candidate, he is trying to position himself as the group's heir apparent.
"I am the Libertarian nominee for president," Johnson said.