Former president of Poland, Lech Walesa, was a founder of the Solidarity trade union group that helped bring about about the downfall of communism in Poland in 1989.
Next, we witnessed the election of Karol Wojtyła to the Papacy, the August Agreements, the creation of Solidarity, the imposition of martial law, the Round Table Talks, the partially-free election in 1989, then my presidency as a seal of freedom and lastly the admission of Poland to NATO and to the European Union.
Lech Walesa: The most important one was to persevere in unity.
It was strengthened by what happened in August 1980.
Already on the first day we set up an Inter-Enterprise Strike Committee and started to work on the demands.
It was also a fight for unity and perseverance in the path we had chosen.
CNN: What gave you the strength to continue the struggle against the communist government in Poland?
It's then that a Pole who became pope helped us to organize ourselves in prayer and also made us understand our inner strength.
I'm sure that had there been no pontificate of John Paul II, the Fall of Communism wouldn't have happened as quickly or as peacefully as it did.
Of course, when I look at it today, from the perspective of years, I wish I had done a few things differently, but as for the path we took, I wouldn't have changed it.
When I was fighting, when I was repeatedly arrested and in prison or when I traveled all over the country to coordinate the activity of unions, my wife and the children were left behind at home.
Today we can say with confidence that we live in a democratic Poland, in a firmly established free market economic system, in a country built on solid foundations of international cooperation and in a country of high aspirations and hopes for further development.
Today it is slowly rising to its feet again and building ships after many years of struggle and hope for its rescue; there is a chance that jobs can be safeguarded and that the symbol of the Polish transformation can be saved.
We then became a member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and today we are also a member of the European Union.
It's true, Poland as we see it today is beyond anything we could have dreamt of at that time.
Lech Walesa: It might seem so, but we still have a problem with the sense of responsibility for the country amongst our citizens.
First we expect "old Europe" to accept us and treat us on an equal footing and then we renounce our right to vote.
I have already been saying it for quite some time: we must evolve past thinking in terms of the nation state and the European state.
We live under new conditions that require us to create a totally different set of programs and structures.
For a long time already, I have been calling for the development of a Decalogue of universal values that would serve as a lasting reference point for this new Europe and the world.
Otherwise it may be hard to maintain the world as it is at present.