The January 22, 1973, Supreme Court decision legalizing abortion remains the law of the land, passions remain high on both sides of the issue, and protests are held each year on its anniversary.
And 88% said the procedure should be allowed when the woman's life is in danger; 83-percent said so in cases of rape or incest.
Research from the Alan Guttmacher Institute finds the number of abortions at its lowest level since Roe, remaining steady at about 1.2 million reported procedures in the year 2011, down 25-percent since the all-time high in 1990.
These laws were also ambiguous, given the Victorian moral code that stifled debate on so personal a subject as unwanted pregnancies.
The court, in fact, heard two cases around the same time: Roe (aka Norma McCorvey, who has since become an abortion opponent), which challenged a Texas law banning abortions except to save the woman's life; and Doe v. Bolton, involving a Georgia law requiring that abortions be performed only in accredited hospitals and only after a review by a hospital staff committee and an exam by two doctors other than the woman's physician.
That "right," wrote Justice Harry Blackmun in the main opinion for the court, is "broad enough to encompass a woman's decision whether or not to terminate her pregnancy."
That "qualified right" found its form in the controversial "trimester analysis" laid out by the justices in Roe: permitting no government regulation during the first three months of a pregnancy; allowing limited regulation in the second trimester to protect the woman's health and safety; and granting government the power to ban abortions during the third trimester -- a time when, medical consensus has concluded, the fetus is capable of living on its own.
Webster (a 5-4 decision) upheld major parts of a Missouri abortion law that prohibited the use of public facilities or the participation of public employees in abortions, and required doctors to test the viability of the fetus before an performing any abortion.
The decision (also 5-4) reaffirmed the heart of Roe while giving states the power to regulate procedures so long as they did not impose an "undue burden" on a woman's right to abortion.
In the meantime, conservatives in Congress have promised to push for tougher restrictions on access to abortion, though many political experts say the goal is not necessarily aimed at overturning Roe.
They found success five years ago when the justices, in a 5-4 ruling, upheld a federal ban on a controversial late-term procedure, rejecting concerns the law didn't take into account the physical safety of the woman.
She believed a more gradual liberalization to abortion would have kept the issue back in the states, avoiding the social and political upheaval that has been part of Roe's legacy.
"When government controls that decision for her, she's being treated as less than a full adult human being responsible for her own choices," she said during her confirmation.
As significant as it was, Roe v. Wade was only the beginning of the battle.