(CNN) -- In a televised address Monday night, U.S. President Barack Obama explained the reasons he involved the U.S. military in the U.N.-authorized mission in Libya, saying "it was not in our national interest" to let the citizens of a rebel stronghold suffer a massacre at the hands of approaching pro-government forces.
"Then ... he made a very puzzling comment, and that was (regime change by force) would be a mistake.
"It's clear we're on the side of the rebels in this conflict.
"What John McCain was suggesting (in the reaction above) frankly strikes me as a very dangerous argument -- that in a place where we have clearly limited interests, clearly nonvital interests, the United States and the president should (have) an open-ended policy of military escalation and say we will do whatever it takes to get Moammar Gadhafi out of office.
If you look at the balance sheet of what it costs this nation with Gadhafi versus what it costs without him, it is in our interest to get rid of him, and the opposition needs continued military support -- not a ground invasion by the U.S. or any other Western power, but air support -- all the way to Tripoli."
"The Americans, they proved to the world they will not only intervene if there (are) American interests only, but ... also when human life is in danger.
... We really appreciate what America did for the Libyan people.
The president says our mission is to protect the people of Libya.
If you were grading this on a Greek logic exam, you'd give it an F. The speech contradicts itself.
The issue is not with the policy.
We're acting in a limited manner to level the playing field so the Libyan people themselves and the opposition that has formed, they'll do that job.
He even added ... a (potential) refugee crisis going to Tunisia and Egypt."
Look, they're probably not perfect revolutionary characters, but they're sure as heck a lot better than Gadhafi staying.
I think the president did a great job.
"I think (Obama) ... made clear that we went in to avoid what he described as violence on a horrific scale in Benghazi; that the mandate of the U.N. coalition ... is to protect Libyan civilians.
At the same time, he made very clear that in his U.S. policy -- and the policy of many of our allies -- that Libya needs to have a new government that responds to the demands of the Libyan people, and that we will pursue every diplomatic and economic means to that end.
And furthermore, I think he made a compelling case that these early U.S. actions really have accomplished what the United States promised to do, and that was to stop Gadhafi from killing other people.
What is going to happen if Gadhafi hangs in there for six months?
It thought that was left cloudy, and is going to continue the debate.
This is really something that should have been done four weeks ago, when it was really likely that the rebels, by virtue of ... a multilateral action, could have tipped the scales and made Gadhafi think ... he needs to get out of there.