On that May afternoon in South Carolina, Romney, his sleeves rolled up and shirt tucked neatly into bluejeans, came prepared to answer a range of tough questions.
The point is this: Even if immigration fails to register as a top issue in the polls -- only 3% of Americans called it the country's "most important problem" in a recent Gallup survey -- the topic continues to burn white hot as a litmus test among a passionate and vocal slice of the GOP primary electorate.
Despite efforts by top Republicans in Washington to improve the party's miserable image among Hispanic voters, not much has changed since the 2012 primary campaign, when GOP voters tore down Texas Gov.
And at first glance, his support for the bill, which allows undocumented immigrants who have attended New Jersey high schools for three years to pay in-state college tuition rates, is problematic.
But in the hothouse context of a Republican primary, which he must win to get to a national election, signing the tuition bill seems like yet another example of Christie unfurling a giant middle finger to the very voters whose support he will need once the presidential race begins in earnest this November.
Talk to any strategist backing his potential GOP opponents, and you'll hear a similar take on Christie's decision to sign the DREAM Act: Supporting tuition breaks for illegal immigrants burnishes his reputation with the Amtrak corridor pundit class, but it cements Christie's status as persona non grata at the Pizza Ranches of western Iowa and diners of New Hampshire.
But there's another way to look at it: The conservatives who despise Christie for signing the tuition bill probably wouldn't support him anyway.
The silent plurality of Republican primary voters -- the blue hairs, the country clubbers, the Rotarians -- don't garner the kind of media attention ginned up by tea party groups and outspoken pastors, but they vote.
Terry Branstad, pointed out that the Iowa House passed a version of the DREAM Act way back in 2004.
While there will be a vocal minority speaking out against immigration reform, a majority of Republicans and caucus-goers will not take issue with Gov.
In a crowded Republican field, he even won South Carolina, that conservative bastion, by courting the party establishment and cobbling together a coalition of coastal newcomers, moderate suburbanites and national security hawks in a state loaded with military families and veterans.
"It's running over a political speed bump, not into a brick wall," Cahaly said of Christie's support for the tuition bill.
South Carolina GOP voters have forgiven and forgotten much more.