He laughs to tell the story now, but his moving-train stunt for Disney's 2008 Adam Sandler vehicle "Bedtime Stories" was perhaps the most dangerous Perlin's attempted in his 25 years in Hollywood.
In fact, he said that after completing that train stunt, which involved probably more math than we'd care to compute (consider a man jumping 70 feet on a motorbike at 60 mph from a ramp into an open car of a train traveling at 45 mph, all with a woman on the seat next to him...sounds a bit like a SAT question, doesn't it?)
While he didn't sleep for two nights before the stunt, he says a strange type of calm precedes any of his attempts at a difficult trick.
Perlin completed the stunt, this time "hitting" it almost exactly through the middle of the box-car's open gate and the movie's production team wrapped the scene.
Perlin grew up in Lake Arrowhead, not far from Hollywood, where from the age of 10 he ripped around the largely rural area on motocross bikes before he graduated onto some seriously heavy machinery -- including his own super-modified Harley Davidson that packs a 350 Chevy car engine.
After a couple misfires, he looked into a stunt school he found in a Hollywood trade publication and he found his calling.
In addition to traveling to Africa, Israel, Russia, and all over the world, the couple raised four kids on a 10-acre ranch about 25 miles north of Hollywood in Lancaster.
Perlin has the scars to prove it.
He recalls the time he was cajoled by a director into doing a motorcycle stunt he considered too dangerous.
I could jump a 35-foot distance (on that bike) but from pier to barge was now more than 35 feet.
He describes a later stunt where he had to jump a motorbike down 2.5 stories from a roof, jumping through a window, all while wearing a rubber monster suit.
He says the lights were bad, and he "couldn't see a thing."
Most famously, perhaps, Perlin portrayed Arnold Schwarzenegger in "Terminator 3," a role that still has a special place in his memory (although he says he's back working with his old Terminator team on a "major blockbuster" to be filmed this summer).
I had to use peripheral vision for all my stunts."
Riding at 45 mph, following the crane, a harness was supposed to bring me closer to the crane and lock me safe to it.
On the same shoot, Monte had to do battle with an object much larger than him and perhaps less forgiving than a moving crane.
He said it would have landed on top of me, but on the last second it turned to the right and missed me.