Well, don't give up on Florida just yet.
It's the part that thrived a century ago during the first waves of development but has been bypassed by most tourists in recent decades for Orlando and points south.
Its towns are smaller, quiet and friendly.
This Gulf Coast fishing village, about 50 miles southwest of Gainesville, is gloriously isolated and seemingly of another era.
Lots of folks get around via golf carts and bicycles, which they don't seem to ever lock up.
If you seek a traditional, white-sand beach with aqua Gulf of Mexico waters right at your doorstep, you need to go elsewhere.
They got 'em, and you can see these gentle giants feeding on heads of lettuce from an underwater observation deck.
Do not skip the 15-minute-or-so boat ride from the parking area to the animal displays, where they take you down a narrow, blackwater creek.
The water is that clear and that cool.
If you get tired of swimming in the brisk, limpid waters, you can explore the lush surrounding forest on a boardwalk and trail.
Honoring American composer Stephen Foster, this park is perched by the famed river that looks like moving black glass contained by tall, white-sand banks.
The nearby town of White Springs has some pretty old homes, too.
Set alongside a namesake bay and river, this town has one foot in the workday world of harvesting the Gulf's riches and the other foot in artsy boutiques and the like.
I stayed across the bay in nearby Eastpoint, which is even smaller, more blue collar and boutique-free.
And it is perfectly poised to take in awe-inspiring, multicolored sunsets.
It's often cited in Top 10 Florida beach lists, and with good reason.
In the same general area as St. George, you can't go wrong with this park, either.
What really sold me on St. Joseph were the bayside trails; they were nothing less than outstanding.
Florida is truly blessed with freshwater springs, and Wakulla is another standout.
I had the cool swimming area to myself on a weekday in October, but I imagine it's filled up with splashy, happy children in northern Florida's hot summer weekends.
You can't go any higher up and still be in Florida.
If you like riding waves, you get more action than typical on Gulf beaches.
Stay for the cozy courtyard and the pimento cheese sandwich.
Please share your memories and suggestions in the comments below.