(Oprah.com) -- It came as no surprise to a woman we'll call Joan when, after 16 years of marriage, she and her husband started discussing the possibility of divorce.
Like some participants, Joan, who heard about the program while attending a meditation retreat at Spirit Rock, initially balked at the idea of singing.
"The course uses practices that lead the mind toward states of happiness and well-being," says Baraz.
Timeless Wisdom for Feeling Good Fast" and director of the Happiness Project in the United Kingdom, agrees that this is key.
Once participants have made up their minds to be happier, Baraz gives them the tools -- delivered in lectures to the live class he teaches in Berkeley and in twice-monthly e-mails sent to participants in other areas -- to teach them how to cultivate a positive state of mind.
For Joan, that turned out to be a bigger challenge than singing -- especially when her husband suggested that they begin the separation process.
But by accepting those painful feelings, I had a watershed moment: I realized that I really wanted this marriage."
(Baraz points out that one needn't be a Buddhist, or of any particular faith, to reap the benefits of Awakening Joy.
"So I added that and presented it as a series of talks with my weekly meditation group for about three months to see what would happen."
Word of mouth about the course that could make people happier began to spread: The first round of Awakening Joy meetings consisted of about 40 members.
"I'm the person who walks into a nicely designed room and notices only that the painting was hung too high," says Gretchen, age 56.
Though a specialist was able to alleviate some of her physical discomfort, Gretchen fell into a deep depression.
"The first thing I was hit by was the instruction to notice what it feels like when you're happy," she says.
"More than 2,000 people have tested it, so it's not some airy-fairy idea," he says.
"I've learned that it's possible to change, no matter what your history or the limiting beliefs you've held on to.
Research has proven that there is no one set of circumstances that makes someone happy; it's more about having a healthy mental attitude toward whatever you're experiencing.
Subscribe to O, The Oprah Magazine for up to 75% off the newsstand price.