Because of CNN's report, the Senate and House passed new legislation Thursday to close the loophole that could have allowed family members of some lawmakers to profit from inside information.
In the Senate, the Ethics Committee released one page of guidelines in June ruling that members and their spouses and dependent children all have to file reports after they make stock or securities trades.
Both of the lead sponsors of the Senate bill didn't realize the discrepancy until CNN brought it to their attention last month.
Brown, who speaks constantly about this bill in his neck-and-neck race for re-election against consumer advocate Elizabeth Warren, said the whole point of passing the law was to demonstrate that members of Congress weren't held to a different standard.
Robert Walker, a Washington ethics attorney and former chief counsel for both the House and Senate Ethics Committees, explained that the Senate bill did include a provision that covered spouses and children, but when Cantor's office wrote the House version, this language was shifted to a different section of the bill.
The Senate Ethics Committee decided to stick with the spirit of the law that senators originally intended, but the House Ethics Committee went with the letter of the law, which included the loophole not requiring spouses and children to report financial transactions in a timely fashion.
But when pressed with the new information uncovered by CNN, the majority leader's office conceded it made changes to the House bill that effectively took out the requirement for spouses and children to file these reports.
In the two weeks since CNN's report, Cantor's office consulted with the Senate to determine how they should fix the loophole.
"The intent of this important reform bill was clear from the start, to restore people's faith in their elected leaders by ensuring we play by the exact same set of rules as every other American.
In addition to closing the loophole for spouses and dependent children, the new legislation passed by the House and Senate also made a change that the Obama administration requested.