National Republicans, as well as anti-Clinton outside groups and right-wing blogs, have stepped up efforts to redefine Clinton, despite her nearly 40 years on the political stage.
Republicans feel young people could use their version of Clinton's history - and might be impressionable over what might seem like distant history.
And it hinges on the assumption that young voters will be receptive to Republican views of Clinton, who is liked by nearly two thirds of those between 18-29 sampled in a recent Quinnipiac University Poll.
"But, if Republicans want to spend money educating young voters about how strong the economy was under President Clinton's leadership in the 90s and how American broad-based prosperity was was at an all time high, who are we to stop them?"
Conservative blogs and publications have seemingly taken cues from the RNC on this question.
In a three-minute video that has bounced around right wing blogs, students seem unable to answer the question and those who respond offer meager answers (one even cites Clinton's handling of Benghazi as an accomplishment).
Although Democrats have called Rove "sleazy," the stepped up attacks have already had an impact on the early 2016 presidential wrangling by solidifying what Republicans have been saying for months: Hillary Clinton is who they see as the most formidable potential candidate.
In the past two weeks, she has dipped her toes into domestic politics, including her first congressional fundraiser of the midterms -- for a candidate who eventually lost, and has started to regularly tout her husband's record in the White House.
"The 1990s taught us that even in the face of difficult long term economic trends, it is possible through smart policies and sound investments to enjoy broad-based growth and shared prosperity," Clinton said during a speech at the New America Foundation.
Miller added that while he doesn't think the 2016 election will be won or lost on issues like Whitewater and other Clinton White House scandals, he does think  informing young voters, especially, about them is necessary.
"What happens is often times if you don't introduce yourself, then you are leaving that task to the opposition," said Kevin Madden, a Republican strategist and Romney spokesman.
Republicans say that is only because of the unprecedented shadow campaign around Clinton right now.