(OPRAH.com) -- Families all over the country are tightening their belts during this economic crisis, but some people are actually finding that cutting back can lead to richer lives.
And with a little online research, Brett found out how to do his own home repairs and says he has saved more than $6,000.
The ride hasn't been all smooth sailing, and Sue says they incurred some credit card debt along the way.
"There are second-run movie theaters; there are a lot of ways to have fun without spending money."
"Times in the construction industry have been really tough, and four months ago I lost my job as a recruiter and as a trainer," Vicky says.
They begin with the Sandbergs' monthly budget and discover the Sandbergs are spending $650 a month in department stores on things for the kids -- clothing, video games and DVDs.
Sue gives them a basket for storing their daily receipts and a journal to write down their needs and wants.
Because Vicky and Mark have two cell phones, Sue suggests dropping their landline and finds a cable company that offers a better deal.
By searching online, Sue says you can find restaurants that let kids eat for free on certain nights of the week.
Mark and I have worked very hard to have what we have for our family and provide for them, but he'd spend what he'd spend, I would spend what I would spend and we'd pay the bill at the end of the month, and we just weren't paying attention."
With the cost of food rising and moms everywhere cringing over their grocery receipts, one mom has found a way to save her family thousands of dollars.
"It's actually easier than ever to use grocery coupons today because we can use the Internet to print coupons," she says.
As the clerk scans coupon after coupon, the total falls lower and lower -- until it hits $37.16, a 71 percent savings!
She sold tickets for $100 apiece and agreed that any extra money raised beyond the appraised value would go to charity.
After two and a half years on the market, Mike and Pam from Streamwood, Illinois, needed an unconventional way to sell their home.
We were looking for a house with four bedrooms, a basement and a backyard that would be fenced in for our dogs, and we ended up getting that."
If you're interested in finding a creative way to sell your home, make sure to check out the laws in your state first.