Any legal issues about Bergdahl, who's been accused of desertion, will be addressed once he has returned to U.S. soil.
A senior U.S. defense official said this week that Bergdahl has not been classified a deserter and is still scheduled to be promoted to the rank of staff sergeant later this month.
"There's going to be a very deliberate and careful effort to develop the facts, although that also raises complicating issues related to whether or not he is entitled to a Miranda-type warning under the military code, which might lead him to say he doesn't want to talk about it at all," Corn said.
Asked about the accusations, Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel told reporters Wednesday that he did not know of specific circumstances or details of soldiers dying as a result of the efforts to find Bergdahl.
An Army fact-finding investigation conducted in the months after his disappearance concluded that Bergdahl left his outpost deliberately and of his own free will, according to a U.S. military official briefed on the report.
The investigation included interviews with members of Bergdahl's unit, none of whom reported seeing him go, the official said.
Earlier in the week, Hagel declined to address directly detailed questions about Bergdahl's case -- particularly accusations that he deserted, as some of his former brothers-in-arms allege.
Bergdahl's captors freed him in exchange for the release of five Taliban fighters held at the U.S. prison in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, but the Obama administration didn't tell Congress of the releases.
But there are questions about the law itself, he added.
And the problem with the President's argument is there's no limiting principle, that he could argue that all national security laws could fall into the same unilateral power," Turley said.
But a U.S. official who has been briefed on the initial Army fact-finding investigation conducted in the months after Bergdahl disappeared told CNN that Bergdahl's commanders referred to him as "a good soldier" in that report.
Officials have yet to state the findings of their medical examination of Bergdahl following his release Saturday.
First there were the immediate reports that Bergdahl was being hailed as a hero.
In fact, the former soldiers say they are so outraged that they are speaking out publicly at significant peril.
The former servicemen said they earlier signed nondisclosure agreements about the disappearance and search for Bergdahl, but they're now violating it.
Army officials didn't immediately return a CNN request for comment about what consequences, if any, the former soldiers may face if they're in violation of a nondisclosure agreement.
CNN's Barbara Starr and Jake Tapper contributed to this report.