The mandate came as a surprise to the federal Centers for Disease and Control and Prevention in Atlanta, according to a federal official familiar with the situation.
They're very worried we won't be able to get physicians or nurses to go (to countries affected by the Ebola outbreak)."
Hickox, in an Op-Ed piece in The Dallas Morning News, wrote that she was ordered placed in quarantine at a hospital, where she tested negative in a preliminary test for Ebola.
Hickox eventually got a police escort, sirens blaring, to a hospital, when her temperature was again checked in an outdoor tent.
New York City Health Commissioner Dr. Mary Bassett is concerned that the mandatory quarantine will discourage doctors and nurses from volunteering to take care of Ebola patients in West Africa, according to her spokeswoman.
In addition, people with a travel history to the affected regions but with no direct contact with Ebola patients will be "actively monitored ... and, if necessary, quarantined," according to the new policy.
The new guidelines add to the federal policy requiring all travelers coming to the United States from Ebola-affected areas to be actively monitored for 21 days, starting Monday.
On Thursday, a New York doctor who had traveled on a humanitarian mission to Guinea, where he had treated Ebola patients, developed symptoms and has been hospitalized in Manhattan.
On the same day Cuomo and Christie announced the new guidelines, Ebola survivor Nancy Writebol donated plasma to Spencer, said the charity SIM.
Dr. Jay Varma, deputy commissioner for disease control at the city health department, held a news conference outside said the woman would be under quarantine for 21 days and that she is healthy.
"In return from being allowed to come back into the country from a place where a deadly disease is endemic, you'd have to enter a quarantine facility and be supervised for 21 days," the Maryland Republican told CNN.
But other officials say while that policy could prevent some cases of Ebola in the United States over the short term, it could backfire if highly trained American doctors have less incentive to travel to Africa to fight the disease.