Welcome, all of you, to a new week of CNN Student News!
AZUZ: The first Friday of every month, the U.S. government usually announces the current unemployment rate.
So if the rate goes up, it could mean that Americans who'd stopped looking think they have a better chance of finding work, so they're back on the job hunt.
DAN LOTHIAN, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: It was a secret trip the White House says was in the works for more than a month; flying into Bagram Air Base for a little more than four hours to salute the men and women who are carrying out the administration's stepped-up strategy in Afghanistan.
BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: This part of the world is the center of a global effort where we are going to disrupt and dismantle and defeat al Qaeda and its extremist allies, and that's why you're here.
But a storm rolled in with high winds, dust and low cloud cover, so his helicopter trip was canceled, and the Karzai meeting became a 15-minute phone call.
The president did visit wounded troops at a base hospital, awarding five Purple Hearts, and met with members of the 101st Airborne Division who lost six members in a deadly attack earlier this week.
As for whether or not those WikiLeaks documents could cause more problems for the Obama administration, one top aide says that they've weathered these kinds of revelations in the past and that there's no secret about the challenges they're facing in Afghanistan, especially when it comes to corruption in the government there.
Saturday, the U.S. Senate voted not to extend the cuts for anyone, but Democratic and Republican leaders are hopeful they they can still work out a compromise.
The fee or tax on products that are imported is called a tariff.
Over the next five years, it would eliminate 95 percent of the tariffs on industrial and consumer products that South Korea imports from the United States.
The president had hoped to finalize the deal with South Korea when he was in that country last month.
You can see some of the damage in these photos sent in by an iReporter.
The prime minister, Binyamin Netanyahu, says he wants the people who were affected to be able to go back to their homes or to alternative housing within days.
As of Sunday, it was still burning in a few places, but authorities said the major sources had been extinguished.
But for one week, there's a school district in Washington state that's going unplugged as part of a social experiment.
And this is what we mean by unplugged: More than 400 students, teachers and staff have promised to give up texting, Twitter, Facebook and cell phones!
The students who are taking part are on the honor system, but they've given their cell numbers to teachers who will use "spies" to try and test them.
Look at this: 93 percent of you thought Ronnie Hastie should not have been penalized for what he did.
Quick reminder for you: We only publish comments with first names; we only read first names on the show.
This check-up was to make sure he's healthy, in good shape, and eating well.
AZUZ: You know, all the bear essentials.