But more than simply a book about a guy with a special ability, "The Visible Man" is about how people act when they're not being watched, and the sketchy moral line that's crossed by the watcher.
Chuck Klosterman: I think it was probably when I was writing the previous book, the essay collection (2009's "Eating the Dinosaur").
Of course, as I thought it over, what type of personality would pursue something like invisibility?
At the same time, I was thinking a lot about the process of interviewing.
I can't imagine that, as I grow older, I'm going to reverse my thinking and start believing the interviewing process is more valuable than I think now.
But here's the trick, or, I guess, the paradox: Even though interviewing is this incredibly flawed process, it's still the best means we have for understanding people we don't know.
There's certainly a thinking, and I didn't see this as much when I worked in newspapers, but when I moved to New York and ended up being surrounded mostly by critics, I came to the realization that a lot of people sort of work under the impression that not only is interviewing not helpful, but that it's mostly detrimental.
To me, if someone had never written a book before and was now attempting to write a book based on the fact that they had one metaphysical encounter, that would be their fear.
Well, it would be someone who is insecure, and someone who is just smart enough to be kind of dumb.
I can't imagine someone reading this and going, "I really relate to this man or this woman."
I mean, it's kind of a cliche thing; it seems like something you worry about when you're 17, but I've never stopped worrying about it.
If you think about reality, and you think about the problems of reality, there's never going to be a point where there's no more questions to ask.
But at the same time, if you keep going on that, eventually you end up writing a book where the whole premise is, "This book exists."
and I know that I only have one sentence to tell them, I would say, "Well, it's how it would be to be the invisible man's therapist."
But when I write fiction, I want it to seem like journalism.