Harris-Moore has already been charged with over a dozen crimes such as fleeing from police officers in a stolen car, identity thefts, burglaries and taking a four seater Cessna plane for a joyride, even though he doesn't have a pilot's license and never apparently took any flying lessons.
Before he gained notoriety as the brazen "barefoot bandit," Harris-Moore was a wayward boy who despite frequent run-ins with the law, behavior modifying medication, pleas from relatives and psychological counseling could not stay out of trouble.
In court records, Harris-Moore tells a psychologist his mother acted "mean" when drinking and "she will break my things.
But in a handwritten letter in Harris-Moore's court file, Kohler wrote, "This boy has had many disappointments all his life.
Colton was "attached to" her next husband, Kohler said in court records, but he was "a heroin addict" who died of undetermined causes when Colton was 10 years old.
In a May 2003 incident, court records say that Colton Harris-Moore, then 12, called 911 after his father allegedly pushed him to the ground and gripped his hand around the boy's throat.
According to court records, Pamela Kohler blamed her son for the incident.
Six months later, Harris-Moore was arrested with three other boys for breaking into the middle school he attended.
In 2007 as her son faced sentencing on burglary charges, Harris-Moore's mother wrote the court, saying "Colt has had mental problems since about age 2.
In the 2007 psychological evaluation that is part of Harris-Moore's court file, Dr. Delton Young writes "Colton has a long-term history of psychiatric and behavioral difficulties.
Harris-Moore's then-attorney Rachel Miyoshi said she ordered the psychological review to show that he "wasn't dangerous, wasn't violent.
With Harris-Moore facing 23 charges, Miyoshi negotiated a deal where Harris-Moore plead guilty to three charges of burglary and was sentenced to three years in a juvenile detention home "I love that boy like one of my own kids," Harris-Moore's aunt Sandra Puttmann wrote, the judge in the case.
Instead, Puttmann said, she would receive phone calls from Harris-Moore every month or so to let her know he was doing ok and still running.