The hair is cut above the shoulders, and then razored from back to front at a slight angle.
WHO SHOULD TRY IT "Minus the bangs, this would be a great short cut for someone with curly hair," said hairstylist Mark Townsend.
WHAT IT IS A cool update on the retro pixie: Short in the back with a swoop of asymmetrical, face-framing bangs.
And of course, keep in mind that trims like this are ideal on women with delicate features.
"There are some soft layers on the underside of the hair, but the appearance is very sharp and very modern."
Those with wavy strands will love the scrunch-and-go ease of the look -- but do take the time to smooth the fringe.
"Heidi's hair is mid-length, which can get a little dowdy, but because of the dimensional layers sliced throughout, it has a great shape and isn't one bit matronly," Townsend says.
"You really want to have your stylist cut two distinct sets of layers at the chin and at the collarbone."
Who says you have to stop at the cut -- take your new look even further with one of these fabulous fall colors.
But a coppery auburn with a wash of strawberry highlights like Stone's is flattering on skintones ranging from ultra-fair to tan and tawny.
De Souza also points out that because the tone is slightly ashy, it's best reserved for women with fair skin.
KEY COLOR NOTES What makes this blond so unique is the layers of dimensional color: A base of toffee blond is accented with ribbons of caramel and straw.
Keep things sophisticated, not streaky, by making sure the highlights are ultra-fine and placed evenly throughout the entire head, even on the underside of your hair.
KEY COLOR NOTES "Olivia hadn't colored her hair in seven or eight years when she came to me," De Souza confesses.
Thick ribbons of a coppery blond right along the part are the perfect update to a glossy espresso single-process treatment.
KEY COLOR NOTES Freida Pinto's hair is so unique because it's nearly a true black, without a glint of auburn or purple in the light.
Ask your colorist for the deepest shade of brunet, not black, which is too severe and heavy metal for the look you're after.
Copyright © 2011 Time Inc. All rights reserved.