The Newport Country Club of Rhode Island hosted the first U.S. Open in 1895 with far less fanfare than the modern tournament receives.
(He also made a compelling case for home-course advantage in golf; by day the young champ was the assistant pro at...you guessed it, the Newport Country Club.)
Americans didn't claim their own Open until 1911 when Philadelphia's John J. McDermott bested the field by three strokes.
Both amateurs and professionals can compete in the event, so in theory, any golfer in the world is eligible for the field.
The United States Golf Association's Web site ominously warns that golfers are "subject to rejection at any time (including during the Championship) by the USGA.
He took the course for the 1898 Open at the Myopia Hunt Club in S. Hamilton, Massachusetts, and proceeded to shoot a 157 in his opening round.
At the 1938 Open at Cherry Hills in Englewood, Colorado, Ainsley hit into a creek on the 16th hole of his second round.
When the ball finally found its way onto dry land and into the cup, Ainsley had racked up a 19-stroke hole, a record that still stands.
Although he was an amateur facing stiff competition from celebrated British pros like Harry Vardon and Ted Ray, Ouimet managed to squeak out a victory following an 18-hole playoff.
Amateur golfer Bobby Jones was undoubtedly one of the best golfers of all time, and he had the hardware to back it up: four U.S. Open wins, another three wins in the British Open, and six more wins between the U.S.
After officials were unable to confirm that the ball had actually moved, they allowed Jones to make his own ruling on whether or not he should be penalized.
He wasn't just a little ill; he was suffering from a case of amoebic dysentery that caused him to lose 15 pounds before the tournament began.
In the final round, though, he roared back despite feeling ill and being forced to subsist on sugar cubes.
The sweltering sun got to Venturi in his final round, and he nearly collapsed from heat exhaustion.