"The Museum of Broadcasting called and said, 'We were thinking about doing an archive interview with you.
During his brief career, the influential Simon also served as the showrunner on the sitcom "Taxi" at the age of 23; wrote for and produced the comedies "Cheers" and "The Drew Carey Show"; and created a Fox series for the legendary stand-up comic George Carlin in the mid-1990s.
All three had worked on "The Tracey Ullman Show," where Bart Simpson and his family got their start as animated sketches shown before and after commercials.
In 'The Simpsons,' the characters are motivated by their emotions and their foibles.
Simon also is credited with assembling the show's elite writing team that included Al Jean, George Meyer, John Swartzwelder, Mike Reiss, Jon Vitti and Conan O'Brien.
Tired of the grind, Simon exited the show in 1993 after four seasons but worked out a deal tied to home video sales that he said paid him "tens of millions" every year.
As detailed in The Hollywood Reporter's 2013 Philantrophy Issue, Simon's charitable contributions include founding the Malibu-based Sam Simon Foundation (worth nearly $23 million as of 2011) that rescues the hungry and feeds stray dogs.
Simon also turned a Malibu spread into a canine haven that rescues dogs from kill shelters and trains them as companions for the deaf.
Simon, who won eight of his Emmys for writing/producing "The Simpsons" (many after he left) and one for producing "The Tracey Ullman Show," was married to and divorced from actress Jennifer Tilly (1984 to 1991) and Playboy Playmate Jami Ferrell (for mere weeks in 2000).
Groucho Marx lived across the street, and he recalled walking into his parents' room as a youngster and finding the legendary comic and his mom sitting on the bed.
An avid poker player, Simon re-created his home game in a penthouse at the Palms Hotel in Las Vegas for a Playboy TV show in 2009.
Later, talking about all the millions he's given to charity, he added: "I kinda like it when people talk about me as a special person.
©2015 The Hollywood Reporter.