It was a completely different environment than the one he'd seen seven years ago, after Katrina struck.
Purcell says it's the same sentiment that has brought people from all over the county to New Orleans in the years following Katrina and has helped spur the city's entrepreneurial movement.
Entrepreneurship has spiked in New Orleans, a city that suffered a population exodus and struggled to get back on its feet after Katrina's destruction.
Forbes recently called New Orleans one of the biggest brain magnets in the country, praising its "communal camaraderie and business incubators that have helped many of the startups get off the ground."
"What Hurricane Katrina did is move a whole new generation of young people that didn't have ties to the community, that weren't complacent, that were aggressive, that were entrepreneurial, that wanted to make a difference, socially and financially," he said.
Boyd, a Louisiana native, asked city business insiders whether New Orleans could be a viable home for his company.
Boyd now meets with a new startup every week and networks with other Web developers through groups like NOLA Meetup and gnocode, which connect people in the city's emerging tech scene.
"As companies start to scale, they need high-level management to help grow," said Tim Williamson, co-founder of the Idea Village, a nonprofit that nurtures New Orleans entrepreneurs.
"I think that this is a moment in time and history where we're right in the middle of a renaissance period, where the next generation of economic and civic leadership is being nurtured and cultivated here in New Orleans," Williamson said.
A Connecticut native and Columbia University graduate, Medbery moved to New Orleans in 2008 and taught at a charter school for one year before launching Kickboard, software that provides a centralized location for teachers to record their students' progress.
And so as a community, business leaders here are very committed to each other's success, because it's all part of New Orleans redefining itself."