Gunmen halted the van ferrying Malala Yousafzai through her native Swat Valley, one of the most conservative regions in Pakistan.
Two suffered non-life-threatening injuries, but bullets struck Malala in the head and neck.
Now, it is nothing short of a miracle that the teen blogger, who fights for the right of girls to get an education, is still alive and even more astounding that she suffered no major brain or nerve damage.
Less than three months after being gunned down, she was discharged from the hospital to continue her rehabilitation at her family's temporary home.
Malala wrote in her online diary about intimidation tactics the Taliban used in the Swat Valley in northwest Pakistan to coerce girls into not going school.
The bloodletting sparked outrage inside Pakistan against the radical Islamist group, which continues to wield influence in parts of the country.
The airwaves filled with leaders and commentators who publicly got behind her, and journalists closely followed her story, drawing death threats from the Taliban for their coverage.
Malala later requested that schools not be named for her, to prevent them from becoming prominent targets for the Pakistani Taliban.
"Pakistan has a new heroine and a new cause -- a girl's right to education," former British Prime Minister Gordon Brown wrote in an opinion piece published by CNN.
Malala was taken by helicopter from one military hospital in Pakistan to another, where doctors placed her in a medically induced coma, so an air ambulance could fly her to Great Britain for treatment.
More than a week after being shot a world away, Malala got back on her feet again, able to stand when leaning on a nurse's arm at Queen Elizabeth Hospital in Birmingham.
She has returned to her family and continues therapies as an outpatient at the hospital where she will undergo further surgery on her skull.
In an interview with CNN, Khan's sister apologized to Malala for his alleged involvement.
Her lead doctor, Dr. Rosser, "does not envisage any difficulties" in a pair of operations to repair her skull or fix the hearing in her left ear, he said Wednesday.
At home, her writings led to her being awarded Pakistan's first National Peace Prize in late 2011.