Ernst, a political unknown who rose to fame in 2014 with an ad promising she could cut pork in Washington because of her experience castrating hogs on her family farm, has signaled her media strategy by declining interviews since her election from anyone other than Iowa outlets.
She made her first appearance on a Sunday show last week and spoke to Fox on Thursday night about her vote on legislation related to Obamacare.
"One of the best pieces of advice that Ted Kennedy used to give incoming senators was to be a workhorse, not a show horse," said Stephanie Cutter, a former senior adviser to Kennedy and Obama.
In a recent op-ed for the Boston Globe, former New Hampshire Sen. John E. Sununu, a Republican, said that when it came to working with Cruz "the collective membership of the world's greatest deliberative body would rather stick needles in their eyes."
The hogs and Harley-themed event was a nod to her roots and former Iowa Sen. Tom Harkin's famed steak fry, which has lured many presidential candidates to Iowa in recent years.
In a sign of the pressures to come, however, Love was quickly drawn into the recent controversy over whether Republican House Majority Whip Steve Scalise should remain in leadership after it was revealed that he spoke to a white supremacist group in 2002.
At the same time, she also drew notice by joining the Congressional Black Caucus this week, raising the eyebrows of its many Democratic members by saying she wants to change it from the inside.
But "she declined 99.9% of those interview requests," said Patti Solis-Doyle, a long time adviser to Clinton who was her chief of staff on her first Senate campaign.
(At a "New York Farm Day" hosted by Clinton in the Senate, she placed Boonville's Mercer's Dairy next to New York winemakers, inspiring wine-flavored ice cream that is now sold internationally).
But while running for re-election to the U.S. Senate this fall, Booker told NJ.com that his goal for the year was to "stay away from the media" and "earn the respect of my colleagues" as a hard worker.
"They're both going to get an enormous amount of requests, not only for interviews, but also to travel and raise money for their respective parties and caucuses," Solis-Doyle said.