After all, her letter to the "Daily Princetonian" last year, which went viral, outraged many women, myself included, with its message that a woman should find a husband on campus before she graduates.
You cannot wait forever to get married and have children," she tells them, citing declining fertility rates for women in their 30s.
Patton: Of course, I am fully supportive of equal rights and equal opportunity for women, and I recognize that I am one of the earliest beneficiaries of the good works of the women's movement.
They've become bullying of women who aspire to traditional roles, women who want anything for themselves different from what the feminists, the very strident feminists' doctrine, is directing them towards.
The problem is they're afraid to say so because of the vitriol, because of this antagonist feminist doctrine that would have them believe that marriage and motherhood is somehow not cool.
... You want to be empowered to have the career choices you want to have as well as be a mother and be in a relationship if you want marriage and family, too.
He's quite happy to actually be with a woman 10 years younger.
Work a little harder, it's OK. You can make up that lost time if you are focused on your personal happiness, which I guarantee you will outlast your professional happiness.
Patton: I've heard this argument before, that in your early 20s, you don't know who you are going to evolve into by the time you're 30.
Kelly: You talk about "Marrying Smart" and spending more time in college to find that right person, but you have to believe it's also very important for women, at the same time, to be fulfilled and find what they want because their marriage could end; 50% of marriages end in divorce.
... Women have to know that they are responsible for their own safety.
Patton: There are two barnyard analogies that I cite regularly.
I'm telling women avoid wasting time with the pigs for the sake of a little sausage.
Kelly: You basically say if you require major (cosmetic) bodywork, get it done in high school.
Patton: I would never have plastic surgery, and I wouldn't recommend it for anybody except if you have a tragic flaw, something that enters the room before you do such that you are hounded by it, such that it so impacts your self-image.
There was nothing in this for me other than my absolute conviction that this is a message that our young women need because all they're hearing is you have to focus on work, work, work.
They've controverted what I've said for their own purposes, or they're so caught up in trying to look politically correct that they've gone in a different direction from where I'm writing.
I'm trying to bring to the fore a dialogue that's been suppressed.
What do you think of Patton's argument that women who want to get married should look for a husband in college?