U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry met with Israeli and Palestinian leaders as well as U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, while several Middle Eastern nations worked to try to win Hamas' agreement for an Egyptian-led cease-fire.
Israel has indicted an adult and two minors for the killing.
"I promise the Palestinian parents: All we want is to live in peace and raise our children without threats of missiles or tunnels under our communities," noting that an Israeli kindergarten was struck by a rocket this week -- it was empty at the time.
Despite Fraenkel's sentiments, many Palestinian parents accuse Israel of carrying out a "massacre" -- and have called on Israelis to push the government to stop military action.
Palestinians have disputed Israeli and American assertions that many of the deaths are due to people choosing to be part of human shields.
While Hamas leaders have encouraged people to do so, many Palestinians have told CNN they worried that if they followed Israeli warnings and fled their homes, they'd have nowhere safe to go.
"There seems to be a strong possibility that international humanitarian law has been violated, in a manner that could amount to war crimes," U.N. High Commissioner for Human Rights Navi Pillay said Wednesday.
Respect for the right to life of civilians, including children, should be a foremost consideration.
"She would be better advised to seek credible first-hand information rather than making intolerably biased statements based on newspaper clippings," Foreign Ministry spokesman Yigal Palmor said, according to The Jerusalem Post.
The Israel Defense Forces has warned residents of the neighborhood to flee multiple times and has accused Hamas of telling people to remain in their homes.
The IDF also "attacked several militants emerging from a tunnel opening" in southern Gaza, Israel said.
The Israeli military released video it said showed secondary explosions from stockpiled munitions when the hospital was hit.
Abbas' Fatah party has long controlled the Palestinian government in the West Bank, while Hamas has controlled Gaza.
Hamas political leadership lives in Qatar, another country involved in efforts to achieve a cease-fire.