Even though House Republicans now have voted 42 times to repeal or otherwise undermine Obamacare, Speaker John Boehner and fellow Republicans held a brief victory rally after Friday's action and challenged the Senate to follow their lead.
In a display of the raw politics of the battle, House Majority Leader Eric Cantor of Virginia called out  Senate Democrats facing re-election next year by name, asking how Sens.
Without some kind of spending measure by then, parts of the government would have to curtail services or shut down.
The two-stage process includes the possible government shutdown at the end of the current fiscal year on September 30 if there is no compromise on a spending resolution, followed by a potentially even more rancorous debate over raising the debt ceiling.
We don't run out on our tab," the president said, calling even the threat of not raising the debt ceiling "the height of irresponsibility."
An earlier compromise proposed by Boehner and fellow GOP House leaders to their conservative wing would have allowed a symbolic vote on the defunding provision that the Senate would then strip out.
On the House floor on Friday, legislators warned of the serious consequences of a government shutdown.
Republicans said the House vote showed bipartisan support for defunding Obamacare because two Democrats backed the GOP resolution -- Reps. Jim Matheson of Utah and Mike McIntyre of North Carolina.
Boehner would then have to decide whether to put it to a vote, even though that could undermine his already weakened leadership position by having the measure pass with only a few dozen moderate Republicans joining Democrats in support.
Voices across the political spectrum warn against a shutdown, including Congressional Budget Office Director Douglas Elmendorf, Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, and Republican strategist Karl Rove.
But their approach means we'll get one," Rove argued in an op-ed published Thursday by the Wall Street Journal.