"I'm sure Mr. Sullenberger himself wouldn't have used that word," Langewiesche said in an interview with CNN.
They were not hysterical, and there was no stampeding.
The result in the A320 is the product of a genius -- an airplane that is ... exquisitely wrought, a delight to handle, and extraordinarily easy to fly."
In an interview with The New York Times, Sullenberger said, "There are some situations where the automation will protect a pilot, but at the same time a highly automated airplane makes possible other types of errors, so it's a mixed blessing.
My father was a German immigrant, an anti-Nazi who came here before the beginning of the war ... who became a test pilot for the U.S. Navy.
The attitude or the pitch of the airplane stays where you put it, it's an airplane that responds in an extremely docile manner to the control stick when it's flown by hand.
The unions really resented it; it was because of flight envelope protections that kick in when the plane goes where a normal airline pilot will never go.
... Also the landing gear was up.
Other people could have been distracted.
While in most simulations conducted after the fact, pilots were able to get back to the airport safely, he made the right decision.
And with deregulation, the salary of the pilot had been downsized.
It's technically possible, and the U.S. flies drones in Afghanistan ... but obviously that's not the future of airlines in a dense traffic world with the public aboard.
There was a time, a glorious interval, when airline pilots were paid a lot of money and there was still prestige associated with the job ... but after deregulation everything changed.
Langewiesche: If you look at new pilots coming in now, these guys are as competent as the older guys, and they're being paid a lot less money.
Langewiesche: This thing we hear so repetitively -- it's actually the safety briefing on a plane, which is probably a pretty good guide to it.
Where are the exits, how do the life rafts work; it's probably all a passenger needs to know.
The book elevates legitimately and correctly what Mr. Sullenberger and Mr. Skiles did as pilots.
I never imply that, had they been flying a 737, things would have been worse.