McMullen runs Solo Insurance on West Florissant close to where looting and vandalism briefly broke out in early August after a police officer shot to death teenager Michael Brown.
"So maybe I get trapped here or something and have to have a John Wayne shootout," McMullen says before interrupting himself, smiling.
When his adult son told him he wanted a gun to protect himself after the grand jury decision, McMullen warned him not to rush into it.
"People are afraid they are gonna throw Molotov cocktails," says King, referring to the mostly nonviolent protests that have taken place in Ferguson since the shooting.
If the world can just see this is one little street in Ferguson going crazy, they'd understand that we're not just one big burning city."
Many new customers tell him they're concerned about the response to the grand jury decision.
A gun owner himself, Knowles says gun ownership is a responsibility that should not be taken lightly.
"We don't have the constant flow of customers that we normally have coming through here because everybody is afraid."
Masri claims to say whatever he wants to police and believes they should be trained to take it.
Now they tend to stand strong, but not react in the face of verbal abuse and on the few occasions where water bottles have been thrown at them.
In this normally quiet town of 21,200, the majority of people -- those who support Wilson and those who think he should be arrested -- do not believe he will be indicted.
McMullen, the insurance company owner, hates to see the business that he's run for 20 years look the way it does.
He says he knows most residents just want to speak their minds without violence, but he says it's "the crazies" that worry him.
When it opens, Royal says the Center will help local residents with job training and plug them into existing social services.
Not just for its signature Garbage Burger, topped with a fried egg, but also because it's one of the few on West Florissant that is not boarded up.
"I refused to shut down then, I refuse to shut down now," Davis says.