(SuperYachtWorld) -- They may not be big on looks but explorer yachts can realize even the most intrepid traveler's desire for far-flung and exotic corners of the globe.
It is a specially designed platform from which to explore undiscovered Chilean Patagonia in three ways -- by air, land and water, using the yacht's on-board vehicles, which include a helicopter.
What its captain says: "My crew will fly you in helicopters, drive you to see wildlife in special tenders and take you on rugged shore-based excursions in one of a fleet of all-terrain vehicles we keep ashore in strategically placed locations along the coastline.
Most recently it was deployed to Bimini in the Bahamas where its huge hangar and massive crane were used to launch a research submarine that was looking for the lost city of Atlantis.
Why we like it: "Senses" is packed with toys, including a luxurious 13 meter "Nelson tender" speedboat with its own slipway system enabling guests to step directly aboard from the main deck, an 8.5 meter Herreshoff sailing sloop, a "Hobie Cat" catamaran, a Waverunner, an  meter fishing boat and a 7.5-meter RIB.
What its captain says: "'Senses' can acclimatize to every use, be it diving in the Tropics, three month-long self-contained adventures up the Amazon, or entertaining.
Its seaworthiness sailing between island groups and its ability to carry a large tender on deck, which we use to explore lagoons and diving areas, make it the perfect yacht.
Why we like it: Built for the Royal Navy as "HMS Beagle," it was one of a flotilla that undertook voyages around the world to ensure that the Admiralty's hydrographic charts were fully up-to-date.
Why we like it: "Devotion" was the first superyacht to enter Desolation Sound in British Columbia.
The big deck spaces and windows allow our guests to experience nature's beauty virtually the entire time aboard."
Just about everywhere, but it's now based in Phuket, Thailand, giving it access to Indonesia, Singapore, Myanmar and India, as well as being able to offer all-year cruising.
With four generators instead of the usual three, it's got the power to back up its explorer credentials.
What its captain says: "Because of its solidity, seaworthiness and state-of-the-art navigation gear, I would be happy to take 'Leo Fun' anywhere with more than three meters of water.''