Both are recently elected to Congress.
Rep. Jeff Denham, who represents California's 10th Congressional District, is actively lobbying his Republican colleagues to get on board behind immigration legislation that includes a path to legalization.
"We have a path to citizenship and it's a path that has been followed by millions of legal immigrants who have obeyed all of our laws," McClintock said.
He signed on to the Democrats' proposal, which includes a path to legalization for the 11 million undocumented immigrants currently in the country.
The establishment and moderate components of the party want to overhaul the immigration system because it's broken and because it would help a party unpopular with the fastest-growing segment of the population.
The principles Boehner unveiled at last week's Republican retreat sought a middle ground -- a path to legalization but not citizenship, and only after those already in the country get in the back of the line and the federal government provides proof that work is continuing to secure the border.
James Lai, Santa Clara University associate professor of ethnic studies, describes McClintock's district as the "white flight"  district, meaning that wealthier, older, white residents move to the Sacramento suburbs or Lake Tahoe to retire or get away from congested urban areas.
McClintock and Denham "reflect the complex topography of California, but at the same time, their positions are reflected in their constituents," Lai said.
"I can tell you the sentiment in my district is very strongly for the rule of law and assuring that those who come to our country come with the intention of becoming Americans," he said.
Rosemary Jenks, executive director of Numbers USA, a group that favors a reduction of immigration, said McClintock is more in line with Republican voters' views.
Michael Ayala, CEO of the Tuolomne County Chamber, located in California's 4th District, says immigration isn't a priority for county residents.
House Majority Leader Eric Cantor has been advocating his KIDS Act proposal to address the status of children of parents who came to the country illegally.
"The Republican Party has always stood for the rule of law and it has welcomed legal immigrants to the country with the desire to come and be Americans and I believe we should continue to do so," he said.