"Why are green products often more expensive than ones that don't say they are green or environmentally friendly?
Case: First, it should be noted that not all greener products are more expensive.
There are cleaning products and paints, for example, that have been certified as meeting tough environmental standards by EcoLogo or Green Seal that deliver the same high-quality performance one expects without costing any extra.
The more efficient versions are typically more expensive initially to reflect the higher-quality components used to make them, but they quickly pay for themselves in lower energy and water costs.
As demand increases, however, additional manufacturing efficiencies -- economies of scale -- begin to emerge that permit the prices to fall.
Just as some clothing manufacturers charge extra to have their name brand applied to a shirt.
The same is increasingly true with greener product offerings.
Consumers should also beware of generic environmental claims that are so vague they are likely to be misunderstood.
Even phrases like "biodegradable," "recyclable" and "compostable" can be misleading if they fail to clarify how the products were tested or under what circumstances the claim is true.
There are certainly efforts underway to provide consumers with additional information about the environmental impacts of their purchasing decisions.
They are seeking information presented in a nutrition-label format that allows them to compare two certified products to determine which is greener.
Governments are actually already pushing manufacturers to provide this level of detail using their purchasing power rather than their legislative power.
Government purchasers, other large purchasers such as colleges and universities or Fortune 1000 companies, and individual consumers can use the publicly available information about the environmental impacts of their purchasing decisions along with traditional factors like price and quality to determine how they will spend their hard-earned money.
Of course, in addition to the market-based approach, governments always have it within their power to actually legislate minimum environmental requirements or the publication of basic environmental information.
While there were only three or four eco-labels 20 years ago -- EcoLogo was North America's first and it was founded in 1988 -- there are now more than 300.
Before relying on any "green dot" to help make a purchasing decision, consumers need to understand exactly what the "green dot" means.
-- Some labels are being awarded based on fees paid to a consultant rather than based on compliance with a published standard.
-- Review the standard to determine whether it covers multiple environmental issues throughout the entire product life-cycle, which includes the raw materials used to make the product, the manufacturing process, transportation and packaging, and the impacts of using and discarding or recycling the product.
Other programs -- including EcoLogo, Green Seal, and the Chlorine Free Products Association -- independently review product test data and visit the manufacturing facilities to ensure compliance with the standard.