Heavy on data and large numbers, the debate may not have been the easiest to follow for Americans interested in the subject.
The first mention of health care came about six minutes into the debate.
But experts say the increases have not been due to policy, but because of the rising cost of health care.
That means the trend started long before President Barack Obama took office.
That's money that could be better spent on taking care of actual health care costs.
The Obama administration launched several key programs to protect against fraud.
Sending Medicaid back to the states would save the federal government money, but cost states more and adversely impact those using the benefits.
The plan GOP vice-presidential candidate Paul Ryan, as the head of the House Budget Committee, suggested in April -- which Romney adopted as his own -- would cut $1.4 trillion in Medicaid in the next 10 years.
With "baby boomers" getting older, there will be 63 million more people over 60 by the time 2030 comes around, according to U.S. Census projections.
Since poor people, seniors, and people with disabilities make up the majority of those who receive Medicaid, "they'd be hit the hardest."
In the debate, Romney said 10 times that Obama was paying for his health care package by taking the money from Medicare recipients' pockets, cutting $716 billion out of the program.
That means Medicare would cost the government more.
It is unclear what impact the cuts would have on the Medicare program.
In the debate he said, "Some 15% of hospitals and nursing homes say they won't take any more Medicare patients under that scenario (Obamacare)."
Instead of each doctor ordering a different test, they meet and decide as a team how to approach the patient's problem.
Obama has held the clinic up as a model throughout his time in office.
One of the big differences between the Cleveland Clinic and other hospitals is that it and other multi-specialty clinics like the Mayo Clinic in Minnesota employ their own doctors and can create these teams.
"If you take the typical patient who is chronically ill, they will be overweight or obese, they suffer from bad cholesterol, hypertension, asthma and diabetes -- that means they take 10 to 15 medications and there is no team-based care," he said.