Indeed, immediately upon arrival at Athens airport, travelers are confronted by spread of slick advertisements for a global bank.
But today, in a Greece wracked by the most serious economic crisis for at least a century, the truth about the country's economic future is mostly the opposite of these advertisements.
Increasingly peripheral, even to the euro crisis, Greece is in danger of drifting back into its dark 20th century past: back to the self-destructive politics of anti-capitalist violence and ethnic hatred; back perhaps to the drachma, to economic autarky and perhaps even to a financial apocalypse equivalent to the Great Depression.
But now that the old clientist state cannot offer lifetime sinecures for university graduates, young Greeks coming out of university now have little else to do except invest their labor in start-ups.
There's a "big opportunity" in Greece, Doxaras told me because -- given the relative insignificance of the local market - start-ups have to be global, both in their organization and their market.
Plakopita, a 28-year-old woman who has degrees in economics and real-estate development from London and Columbia universities, came back from the US to Greece to start-up and run Netrobe, an iPhone app designed as a virtual closet for young fashionistas which already has 40,000 users.
Like Doxaras and Frantzolas, Plakopita's confidence in the digital Greek rebirth is rooted in the wealth of human talent in Greece.
The biggest problem, of course, remains the oppressively bureaucratic Greek state that, in spite of the crisis, continues to be a major obstacle to entrepreneurial innovation.
As Warp.ly CEO Doxaras explained, most Greeks -- even its younger generation -- don't "get" the idea that Greece, if it wants to compete in the 21st century global economy, has any other option but to become a start-up nation like Israel.
While CoLab co-founder Stavros Messinis acknowledges that any start-up with clients overseas would benefit from the inevitable devaluation of the local currency that a Greek exit from the euro would trigger.
Yet in spite of the danger of a complete economic meltdown, the future remains full of opportunity for Greece's young digital entrepreneurs.