"Never before has science and medicine been so quick to discover, identify the origin and provide treatment for a new disease entity," according to the Nobel committee.
But had Barre-Sinoussi listened to one leader at the lab where she would eventually find fame, she may never have been a scientist at all.
About two years into her studies, she grew tired of the theoretical.
"He said, 'OK, if you want to be a volunteer here part time, that would be fine with me,' " she recalls.
Friends shared their class notes so she could study late nights and weekends while spending full days at the lab.
"He said, 'You are expecting to have a position at Pasteur?'
Instead, that conversation left her more determined to succeed.
It was her dream job, and she's been doing it ever since, eventually becoming the head of the Virology of Retroviruses Unit in 1992.
At the end of the lecture, he asked, "Does anyone here deal with retroviruses?"
Barre-Sinoussi says she and Montagnier had never heard of it then, but they agreed to do some research.
The following month, a patient agreed to let the researchers do a lymph node biopsy.
She changed out all the reagent chemicals they were using, but that didn't stop the T cells from dying.
"We ran across the street to the blood bank and asked if we could get samples for our experiment.
"I called my good friend in the United States, my former boss, and I told him what I thought we had and he joked with me and said, 'Throw it all away,' " Barre-Sinoussi remembers. "
Barre-Sinoussi and Montagnier quickly put a paper together about the results.
"So many people ask me if we were excited about the discovery, but so many young people were dying," Barre-Sinoussi says.
"They just wanted to be close to the place that made the discovery," she says.
Ultimately, after French and American heads of state intervened, in 1987 they were all named co-discoverers and split the royalties from the blood test.
and then she started to cry," Barre-Sinoussi says.
I had already lost my husband that year and thought someone else must have died."
"This is a good thing of the Nobel Prize -- it is easier for me to get an appointment with the first lady or the president of the country," Barre-Sinoussi says.
"A total cure -- the total eradication of the virus will be extremely difficult if not impossible," she says.
"He called me to congratulate me and said how impressed he was," she says.
He said he felt so bad.
And I'm so glad I did not listen."