The streets of Rome are lined with adoring football fans as the team bus winds its way towards the the Stadio Olimpico for Roma's biggest match of the season against bitter rivals Juventus with the prize of the Italian championship hanging in the balance.
"I've been to many, many sporting events across the world," says Sean Foley, vice president of sport and media at the Raptor Group -- which is headed up by Roma's American owner James Pallotta.
Eager to explore new horizons, Pallotta is a man as likely to be spotted in California's tech heartlands as he is dealing with football's power brokers.
So back on the sofa, those iPad fans will watch a YouTube livestream following the Roma team bus as it journeys to the stadium, with drones flying above the crowd to give an altogether different perspective to viewers watching the big game.
As Foley puts it: "I don't think there's many European football club owners that go to Silicon Valley on a regular basis.
"When people tell you there are 3.5 billion football fans in the world, as a way to engage people on our platforms, it's certainly something for us to look at," says Max Goldstein, sports partnerships manager for Google.
A grand total of 672 million tweets were sent relating to the 2014 World Cup in Brazil, while the hosts 7-1 thrashing by Germany in the semifinals saw a record 35 million tweets posted.
It's a far cry from how football looked in the 1970s, the era that Paul Tomkins, growing up in England, was first entranced by a dominant Liverpool team.
Tomkins has been involved with football and Liverpool as a fan, season ticket holder, journalist and author and has seen social media change how rival supporters interact with each other.
Dunkin' Donuts is one of Liverpool's official sponsors and it recently incurred the wrath of the Twitter masses when it altered the club crest as part of a PR campaign.
That's part of the failing of the new social media thing, where not everybody knows what things stand for."
Tomkins readily accepts that, as a traditional fan brought up in a bygone age, he's not necessarily the target audience for the latest technological innovations.
Google and Roma will be hoping that the football fans of tomorrow disagree.