Sarah Palin's hometown required women to pay for their own rape examinations while she was mayor, a practice her police chief fought to keep as late as 2000.
"It was one of those things everyone could agree on except Wasilla," Croft told CNN.
Wasilla's practice of charging victims for their rape exams while she was mayor has gotten wide circulation on the Internet and in the mainstream media.
"I find it hard to believe that for six months a small town, a police chief, would lead the fight against a statewide piece of legislation receiving unanimous support and the mayor not know about it," Croft said.
One woman who wrote in support of the legislation says she was charged for her rape exam by a police department in the city of Juneau, which is hundreds of miles from Wasilla.
He said victims' advocates suggested he introduce legislation as a way to shame cities into changing their practice, and Wasilla resisted.
Others compared it to "dust[ing] for fingerprints" after a burglary, only "the victim's body is the crime scene."
"Asking them to pay for something law enforcement needs in order to investigate their case, it's almost like blaming them for getting sexually assaulted," she said.
"In the past, we've charged the cost of the exams to the victim's insurance company when possible," Fannon was quoted as saying.
Patrick was also a member of Wasilla City Council, and she doesn't recall the issue coming before council members, nor does she remember discussing the issue with Palin.
"Sarah is a fiscal conservative, and so she had seen that the city was heading in a direction of bigger projects, costing taxpayers more money, and she was determined to change that," Patrick said.
Palin is or has ever been an advocate of charging victims for evidence gathering kits is an utter distortion of reality."
The rape kit charges have become an issue among Palin critics who say as governor she has not done enough to combat Alaska's epidemic problem of violence against women.
Palin's office released e-mails showing that one area of disagreement between her and Department of Public Safety Commissioner Walt Monegan was his lobbying in Washington for $30 million to fund a new program of sexual assault response teams.
And she reauthorized a Council on Domestic Violence and Sexual Assault.