(CNN) -- "Beyond the hedonism of tasting these wines -- and the hedonism of tasting these wines is going to be off the charts -- I think there will be two very important ideas that come out of this," says wine educator and "The Wine Bible" author Karen MacNeil as we share a bottle of Stony Hill 2012 Napa Valley Gewurztraminer over lunch.
The experience includes tastings at some of the valley's most scenic and most celebrated wineries; home visits with prolific personalities; wine blending workshops; farm-to-table dining; and, the climax, the first public 1,000-point tasting ever to be held anywhere, as far as MacNeil or Napa Valley Vintners are aware.
When I eat with celebrated vintner Michael Honig at Michael Chiarello's Bottega in the foodie mecca of upscale Yountville, he has a treat to share -- a bottle of the Honig 2010 Westside Trio Cabernet Sauvignon, a limited edition Premiere Napa Valley auction label, which he cradles in the crook of one elbow.
During a pit stop at my lodging for the next three nights -- the stunning, vintner-owned, forest-cocooned Meadowood property in St. Helena -- I have time to appreciate the events of the day and the beauty of my surroundings.
When I join vintner Agustin Huneeus at his terra-cotta-colored home within Quintessa's vineyards, he offers me a cup of tea and explains why the aesthetics of the region -- accentuated by Valley's organic development and agricultural land trust -- are special.
"Artist Ed Moses crafted a cardboard pyramid in the Sixties and then engineers figured out how to build it," she explains, before leading me to a vintage Swiss Army Pinzgauer truck.
Looking over the vines, especially in the slight lull before harvest, it's easy to forget that this is a working farm designed to ensure the grapes have everything they need to produce world-class wines.
We try the grapes from one vine, then one adjacent, tasting the difference in sweetness in vines before squeezing a berry onto a refractometer for a more precise measurement of the sugars.
At Hall Rutherford, after a discussion of the philosophy behind the winemaking process, Mike Reynolds, Hall Wines Napa Valley president and winemaker, and owner Kathryn Hall, pose a challenge -- to blend my own version of the Kathryn Hall cabernet from the barrel provided.
Gemma Price is a freelance travel journalist based in the U.S., the UK and Vietnam.