Democrats turning out for Cochran is just the tip of the iceberg in an already bizarre race marred by name-calling, mudslinging, allegations of cheating and a break-in at a nursing home where the senator's bedridden wife lives.
Cochran was one of two longtime members of Congress who went into Tuesday with their political fates hanging in the balance appear to have survived intra-party challenges.
Mississippi law allows anyone to vote in the runoff, meaning Democrats could go to the polls as long as they hadn't voted in the Democratic primary and didn't plan to vote for their party's candidate in the general election.
They actively reminded voters of the senator's work to secure federal funds for programs such as Head Start and certain medical centers in the state.
I think most people in America think that's a good thing," he said, arguing that the strategy could be helpful for other Republicans nationwide, especially as the GOP works to rebrand its image.
"You are the ones who helped reach all the voters, make sure that they knew that they were important to this election because it's a group effort, it's not a solo," he told a victory celebration in Jackson.
Rangel, the former chairman of the tax-writing House Committee on Ways and Means, was forced to step down from that post in 2010, and the House censured him for ethics violations later that year.
When he told me he was running, I was in Columbia Presbyterian with a viral infection in my spine."
Coburn's announcement in January that he would step down at the end of the year -- with two years left in his term -- sparked a competitive primary in Oklahoma to replace the conservative senator.
For a party looking for more diversity, the 36-year old Shannon, who was the youngest speaker ever of the Oklahoma House, was an attractive choice.
Lankford, who has risen through the ranks to become Republican Policy Committee chairman -- the fifth-ranking House Republican -- in two terms in Congress, was criticized by many on the right for his vote to raise the debt ceiling.
"The job is clear," Lankford repeated throughout his victory speech, ticking off a number of Republican positions on how to fix the economy, including repealing Obamacare, cutting down on environmental regulation and limiting federal spending.
That means we have to send Republicans to the Senate, and that Republican is James Lankford."
In a state dominated by Democrats, Brown will now be considered the favorite in the general election to succeed term-limited Democratic Gov.
If he wins in November, Brown would become the third African-American elected governor in U.S. history.
Clawson easily defeated Democrat April Freeman and two other candidates in the race for the state's 19th Congressional District.