Sarkozy's potential successor, the Socialist François Hollande, may have said that "the enemy is finance," but he also told the New York Times that before attending l'Ecole Nationale d'Administration, the alma mater of our elite public service, he had traveled to the United States and written a report on the American fast food industry that foresaw the triumph of McDonald's in France a decade later.
All this sincere devotion to Americana didn't spare him from being reviled later as the commander-in-chief of the "Cheese-Eating Surrender Monkeys", unwilling to risk blood and treasure in the quest of weapons of mass destruction in Iraq.
Colin Powell, the man in the middle in 2004, sincerely thought America and France could form a bona fide couple, be it "in therapy for the last 60 years."
It was made worse, and personal, by World War II, when Presidents Roosevelt and Truman didn't embrace Charles De Gaulle, the only remnant of dignity of a battered country and the only symbolic redemption of a past that included a shaming defeat, a cruel occupation and the moral abyss of collaboration by Vichy and French police.
The social protection, the nuclear show of force, the state-owned companies, the glowing technocratic elite and appeals to the developing world confirmed the victorious march of our "Third Way" between Washington and Moscow.
His bourgeois but simple upbringing, his father's foreign origin made him an unlikely candidate for the elite and all the more sensitive to the growth, creativity and class promotion promised by the American capitalism and meritocracy.
If our president had gotten along much better than Chirac with George W. Bush since 2007, he had great hopes to bask in the world aura of Obama, and even to replace the British as the closest ally of the United States.
"The most American of the two is not who you would think," a diplomat whispered to me after one of their first meetings, strangely mixing admiration, irony and plain old stereotypes.
But both sides agreed to buy a magazine cover story that asked: "The Americans, What do they think of us?"