Editor's note: Journalist Karl Penhaul spent several weeks tracking the gangs of the Mexican underworld, the corrupt officials who support them and the cops trying to halt the violence.
They said Zeta gunmen recently smashed one reporter's fingers with a hammer as a warning to the media to stay away.
First I saw the ostrich skin cowboy boots, then the highly polished 9 mm pistol strapped to his side.
It was a brazen flouting of Mexican law to carry a gun that way.
Much as we wanted to explore the underbelly of the drug war raging in Mexico, it was clear the capos, or bosses, and their hired guns were in no mood to talk.
They may have been down on their luck but they knew talking to outsiders wasn't worth the cost.
In the glitzy industrial city of Monterrey, we met a marijuana dealer smoking his own merchandise in the bathroom of a dance club.
He said Zeta gunmen bundled him into a truck and with assault rifles aimed at his head they gave him three options -- pay them $100,000, begin working for them or die.
It's just not allowed to work freelance," he said.
When we caught up with him again he was smoking crack, sweating profusely and paranoid his former paymasters would exact revenge.
And in a grim seasonal touch, killers in Juarez decapitated a cop and placed a Father Christmas hat on his severed head.
He tells me he's been in the cocaine trade since the early 1980s almost since it began, has worked internationally and done a stretch in prison
Jose added that he believed groups of corrupt officials and law enforcement officers were using the militarization of the border region not as a means to crush the drug cartels but as a way of forcing them to pay a bigger slice of the drug profits as bribes.
Jose's assertion might seem like feverish conspiracy theory if it weren't for the growing list of Mexican officials, ranging from local cops and foot soldiers to generals and men at the highest levels of law enforcement, who've been busted for allegedly profiting from the drug trade.