When the Parr family started having serious health problems late in 2008, they had no idea it was associated with what they call "a multitude" of drilling operations that popped up near their 40-acre ranch in Decatur, 60 miles northwest of Dallas.
Being that the wells were not on our property, we had no idea that what they were doing on the property around us was affecting us," she said.
Aruba Petroleum argued to the jury that it consistently met state regulatory standards for air emissions and that there was no evidence its fracking of the wells harmed the Parr family in any way.
In a statement released after the verdict, Aruba said "natural gas development has long been prevalent in Wise County," and dozens of companies operate hundreds of wells there.
We lease that property for our cattle and so I went over there to make sure our cattle wasn't around there, and when I went over there my nose and throat started burning."
The Parrs filed suit in March 2011, asking for $66 million in damages against nine companies that were originally thought to be involved in the drilling operations.
During discovery, Gilde said that "substantial evidence" showed that Aruba Petroleum was a factor in causing the Parrs' health problems.
Attorneys who represent the energy sector and are familiar with Parr v. Aruba Petroleum Inc. say they don't believe the case will set a precedent.
Rather, they see this case as an anomaly due to the fact that it went to trial and addressed a rare nuisance allegation that evolved into a case revolving around personal injury from toxic exposure.
They're now living at their ranch again and say that since Aruba has put units on their well sites to clean the air -- and the well closest to them has been shut down -- they are feeling better.
This was justice that was served not only for us, but for every family in the world who has suffered from health effects and the negligence from this type of industry," she said.
Keep it in the pipes, and if you have a leak or spill, report it and be respectful to your neighbors.
If you are going to put this stuff in close proximity to homes, be respectful and careful."