I see the revolution in the eyes of sterling scientists, previously reluctant to dip a toe into this heavily stigmatized world, who are diving in head first.
I see a revolution that is burning white hot among young people, but also shows up among the parents and grandparents in my kids' school.
I see it in the faces of good parents, uprooting their lives to get medicine for their children -- and in the children themselves, such as Charlotte, who went from having 300 seizures a week to just one or two a month.
A few years ago, when I told my mother I was investigating the topic for a documentary, I was met with a long pause.
But just last week she suddenly stopped mid-conversation and said, "I am proud of you on the whole marijuana thing."
Hardly any government officials would agree to sit down and be interviewed on the topic.
When we put the first "Weed" documentary on television in August 2013, I didn't know if anyone would watch our yearlong investigation.
This time around, you will hear from the heads of government agencies earnestly sharing their point of view, both Democratic and Republican senators, and even the President of the United States.
Just four days later, Doblin received a letter in the mail he had been waiting on for seven years that finally provided federal approval for his marijuana study.
There is now promising research into the use of marijuana that could impact tens of thousands of children and adults, including treatment for cancer, epilepsy and Alzheimer's, to name a few.
With regard to pain alone, marijuana could greatly reduce the demand for narcotics and simultaneously decrease the number of accidental painkiller overdoses, which are the greatest cause of preventable death in this country.
There was an impatience about them, and they seemed in a hurry to make a large dent in marijuana reform.
They want their fellow lawmakers at the state and national level to acknowledge what most of the world, including the citizens of the United States, have known for a long time: Marijuana is a medicine, that should be studied and treated like any other medicine.
I reminded them that politicians have a hard time winning elections on the issue of marijuana but less difficulty losing them.
Take a good look at the data, educate yourself and talk to the patients, who are often out of options and find their hope in the form of a simple plant.
But, at some point, open questions do get answered.
And, we should do it now.