Spielberg, one of the most successful directors in Hollywood history, doesn't need the honors -- he has six previous directing nominations, including wins for "Saving Private Ryan" and Schindler's List" -- but the showing marks a return to dominance for the filmmaker.
"Les Miserables" and "Silver Linings Playbook" both received eight nominations, including for best picture.
"I am very pleased that the academy has chosen to honor the many individuals who were a part of 'Silver Linings Playbook,' " he said in a statement.
There are also some young names on the list.
"Beasts," a magical-realist fable about a little girl and her father surviving the caprices of weather, emotion and civilization off the Louisiana coast, received four nominations: best picture, best director (Benh Zeitlin), best actress (Wallis) and best adapted screenplay.
The film was a favorite at Sundance and did well at the box office -- especially given its sometimes inscrutable narrative -- but few expected it to do so well at the Oscars.
Wallis was considered too young by some -- "Sorry, Quvenzhane Wallis, but Best Actress Oscar Nods Are for Big Kids," read a headline in The Atlantic -- and Zeitlin's directing competition included Quentin Tarantino ("Django Unchained"), Kathryn Bigelow ("Zero Dark Thirty"), Ben Affleck ("Argo") and Tom Hooper ("Les Miserables").
"Amour" star Emmanuelle Riva, 85, is the oldest nominee for best actress in Oscar history.
The film, about an obsessive CIA agent pursuing Osama bin Laden, may have been affected by controversy surrounding its torture scenes.
"Instead of awards, 'Zero Dark Thirty' should be earning condemnation for falsely suggesting that torture played a role in the capture of Osama bin Laden," the group said.
(David O. Russell, who directed "Silver Linings Playbook," earned the fifth slot in the directing category.)
The overlooked directors and other creative types -- such as the people of "Skyfall" (five nominations, but none in major categories), "The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey" (three nods) and "The Master" (three nominations, but no love for the film or writer-director Paul Thomas Anderson) -- can always blame the system.
The rest of the nominees might want to take lessons from the nomination leader.
The show will air from the Dolby Theatre -- formerly known as the Kodak Theatre -- in Los Angeles.