Now that he has been found guilty on every count, the jury must decide whether Boston Marathon bomber Tsarnaev, 21, should live or die for what he has done.
Others are expected to come and cry for Lingzi Lu, "a jolly soul," Assistant U.S. Attorney Nadine Pellegrini said, quoting the slain Chinese grad student's father.
"Dzhokhar Tsarnaev murdered each one of them in a way that they had time to feel pain, they had time to be scared and frightened, but they had no time to say good-bye," Pellegrini told the jury.
"These young women, this young man and this little boy, all of them were loved and they loved in return," Pellegrini said.
She was a little older and wearing a baseball uniform.
By contrast, jurors also were left with an indelible image of Tsarnaev, taken when he was in a holding cell in the very courthouse where the trial is being held.
He even called them that," Pellegrini added, referring to the message Tsarnaev scrawled onto the sides of a boat where he hid from police after the bombings.
The stories they told on the witness stand were even more gripping and horrific than the stories told during the guilt phase of Tsarnaev's trial.
When she looked around, she saw blood and muscle everywhere.
"I remember looking around and it just seemed like there were bodies everywhere, blood everywhere."
Her bone-chilling cries could be heard on a video played in court -- the most graphic of many graphic images the jury has been shown.
An amputation above the knee is the most difficult injury to recover from, jurors have learned at this trial.
and wishing she could turn back time by five minutes.
Her husband bent over her and told her it was a terrorist attack.
"I remember thinking I was going to die, that no one could go through that much pain.
She remembers telling herself: " 'Hell no, I don't want to die.
She remembers feeling relief once she arrived at the hospital, even as she signed the form authorizing doctors to take both her legs.
The only way I can describe it is it's like you have the worst athlete's foot in my life."
"You don't realize until you're a double amputee how many dips and hills and inclines there are," she said.