He was part of a military unit whose valor is written indelibly on the pages of this nation's history.
The Doolittle Raiders flew their "Thirty Seconds Over Tokyo" mission in April 1942, when, in the wake of Pearl Harbor, spirits in the United States were at a low point.
So, on Saturday, at the National Museum of the United States Air Force on Wright-Patterson Air Force Base in Dayton, Ohio, the few Raiders who still are alive will open the bottle of 1896 Hennessy Very Special cognac -- 1896 was the year of Jimmy Doolittle's birth -- and raise a solemn toast to their crewmates who have died.
"We knew that we had just separated ourselves from civilization," he said.
There was a time when every schoolchild in the U.S. was taught about the courage of the Raiders.
But when there were reports on the day of the raid that Japan had learned of the mission, a decision was made: The planes had to take off from much farther out in the Pacific than had been anticipated.
"I was scared, frightened -- just about any word you can think of that describes being apprehensive," Cole said.
One died of starvation; the others were grievously mistreated for more than three years.
But even with all their somber and prayerful annual toasts to those they have lost, they have never opened the bottle of 1896 cognac.
"I would like for them to understand that there are times in one's life that require a lot of sacrifices.
Friends and admirers of the Raiders have been trying to persuade Congress, in recognition of the Raiders' contribution to this country, to award the entire 80-man squad not the Medal of Honor, but the Congressional Gold Medal, one of our nation's highest tributes.
A bill asking for authorization of the medal was introduced in a bipartisan manner: A Democrat, Sherrod Brown of Ohio, introduced it in the Senate, and a Republican, Pete Olson of Texas, introduced it in the House.
As Brian Anderson -- a friend and longtime admirer of the Raiders who has worked to get the medal authorized and has tried to get the attention of members of Congress -- said: "Time is not on the Raiders' side."
So those brave men will gather in Dayton next weekend for their final toast.