Air traffic and sea access will be restricted, and everyone going into the zone will have to go through heavy security and identity checks.
Despite the shockwaves of the Volgograd attack, International Olympic Committee President Thomas Bach said he was confident that Russia would keep the Winter Olympics safe.
And, of course, Russia is not alone in suffering a terror attack a short time before hosting an Olympic event.
Andrei Soldatov, an investigative journalist who specializes in the Russian intelligence services, told CNN he believes Russia's militants no longer have the freedom of movement for this kind of large-scale terror attack -- but he's not confident the intelligence services are prepared for the threat of lone suicide bombers.
"They seem to be obsessed with the idea of controlling everything and everybody, but I don't think that's the same thing as what you need to prevent a terror attack."
"That would be a prime target, but the extraordinarily high level of security put in place means that it would be very difficult for the militants to undertake a successful attack for one of these sites," he said.
In the wake of the Volgograd attacks, Russian officials said they did not intend to change their security plans for Sochi -- since they were already so developed -- but vigilance will likely be stepped up elsewhere.
Dmitri Trenin, director of the Carnegie Moscow Center, agrees that "Sochi is perhaps the best protected area in Russia" and will be difficult for militants to penetrate.
This was initially linked to the war in Chechnya, he said, but since then has morphed from a separatist movement into a "threat which is of a civilizational nature" from people who reject modern Russia and want to pursue a jihadist agenda.
But the Games are still a great source of pride for many Russians as only the second Olympics held on Russian soil, he said, and there has been no call for people to stay away.
But the shock of the bombings, plus Coira's disquiet over Russia's position on gay rights following the passage of a controversial "anti-gay propaganda" law last year, led them to make the difficult decision to cancel.
Coira said he might consider traveling to Russia in the future, but only if he feels safe there and if its stance toward the lesbian, gay and transgender community changes.