On Sundays, the NFL's cool efficiency can look more bloodless than its own video games, as if the real thing was now just a parlor game to bet on.
It won so often, for so long, that it could lose every game for the next 65 seasons and still have a record above .500.
This was a place that once held the funeral for one of its most revered coaches inside the football stadium, where nearly 8,000 mourners gazed out at an open casket set on the 50-yard line.
During a wake a couple years ago for one longtime fan, six tickets for the next home game were spotted in the open casket.
As he and his swaggering teammates entered 11,000-seat Bazemore-Hyder Stadium (named for the school's two late, iconic coaches), the stage-lit carpet inside morphed into a fantastical world unlike anything he lived in the rest of the week.
Crouching in the defensive backfield before each play -- dreads spilling from his helmet, tats stamped up and down both arms -- Reggie often talked aloud to his dead cousin, gunned down a year earlier in a shootout at a public housing complex across town from the one where Reggie and his mother then lived.
Or he'd talk to a long-dead aunt who lived with Reggie and his mother, the light of young Reggie's life before she was murdered.
Their deaths still weighed heavily on Reggie, and the football field felt like a secure, supportive place to work some of that out.
My parents come to games and I see them smile and clap their hands and stand up -- stuff like that doesn't happen at home.
When people see ballplayers, they think it's just something they do.
The game also gave Reggie another thing he couldn't find anywhere else: a taste of immortality, no small thing on the disposable streets where he grew up.
We left an aunt's apartment around midnight, and as we walked back to my car Reggie spotted a group of guys loitering on a corner a block away.
But while Reggie's last football game as a player was his last game as a Wildcat -- he raps full time now under the stage name Jim Rock -- Malcolm has gone on to star at wide receiver for the University of Georgia.
Malcolm blossomed into a head-turning athlete his final season at Valdosta -- he wanted to quit his sophomore year until his mother talked him out of it -- and was wooed by schools across the Southeast, including Alabama and Florida.
The previous record holder was Stan Rome, widely considered the greatest athlete in Valdosta's history.
Stan went on to become an NFL wide receiver, as well as the father of Jay Rome, another highly recruited Wildcat and now Malcolm's teammate and roommate at Georgia.
We talked a little more that afternoon about the Voice; Malcolm detailed the dialogues that ran through his head during a half dozen critical plays that season.
"For an athlete who loves to play the game, it happens more than you know," he said.