An estimated 4.5 million U.S. adolescents are cigarette smokers.
According to the CDC, about 43.4 million Americans (19.8 percent of the population) smoke.
If you are in Kentucky, the state with the highest smoking rate, more than one out of every four people (28.3 percent) around you smokes.
Unlike most smokers, he picked up the habit during college; according to the CDC, about 90 percent of heavy smokers start in high school.
And studies show that the younger you are when you start, the more likely you'll become a heavy smoker as an adult.
After speaking to his doctor, he received a prescription for Chantix, a pill to aid with smoking cessation.
"If smoking is so dangerous ... why then do they want to charge $139 to make me stop?
Some would-be smokers pick up their first cigarette to fit in.
But he also blames targeted promotions by tobacco companies (like Virginia Slims targeting women in the 1970s and other brands targeting inner-city minority groups today) and the movies.
"Those two public health policies do three things: reduce smoking among continuing smokers, help people to stop smoking and reduce the chances of our children starting to smoke, because it de-normalizes it.
Of course, society's perception of smoking has changed a lot since the days of doctors actually endorsing one brand or another in the first half of last century.
Smith, a mother of six, wrote, "It's so socially unacceptable where I live, and none of my current friends or relatives smoke.
Even Dimmitt switched from a pipe to cigarettes when he was working with youngsters so he wouldn't reek so much.
"It is pretty clear that the prevalence of smoking in groups of people is related to education status, which is a surrogate for income status.
Former President Clinton was known to sit on the balcony of the White House and enjoy a cigar (his wife, Secretary of State-designate Hilary Clinton, officially made the White House a smoke-free zone).
Said Hurt, "This is only product that I know on the face of the Earth which, if it is used as recommended by manufacturer, kills 60 percent of its customers."