"It was a nightmare," said Joseph, who was then 23 years old and later found it nearly impossible to find where her daughter's remains were buried.
The site, located at the western end of Long Island Sound, dates to the mid-1860s, when it was used as a Union training camp during the American Civil War and then as a prisoner-of-war camp for captured Confederate soldiers.
Joseph contacted Hunt through her website at hartisland.net -- a resource Hunt created for family and friends in search of lost loved ones, as well as a nod of acknowledgment to the city's unclaimed dead.
"I started the Hart Island Project having lost a number of friends to AIDS in the 1980s," Hunt said.
After submitting a series of Freedom of Information Act requests to the city, Hunt got her hands on thousands of the island's burial records and worked to create an online database.
And while Hunt has focused on New York's Hart Island, many other regions of the country have similar sites.
But until that happens, those like Joseph and New Jersey resident Lisa-Michele Russo have turned to Hunt and her website for help.
"It wasn't something that my parents liked to talk about," said the now 38-year-old Blairstown resident.
Her years-long search for his grave had gone cold until 2009 when she, like Joseph, enlisted Hunt's help after finding her Hart Island website.
"We do our best to accommodate every legitimate request," said Department of Correction spokeswoman Sharman Stein, who noted that in most cases, family members must first provide documentation proving that their loved ones are buried on the island before they visit.
In October, Hunt testified at a City Council hearing to amend New York's administrative code and force the Department of Correction to cede control of the island, arguing that the agency wasn't equipped to operate a place that ought to be open to the public.
Hunt, who sustains the Hart Island Project largely through donations and sales of her documentary and artwork, says she's recently received a grant from the state's Council on the Arts to create a "posthumous Wiki" -- a user-generated database of stories, photos and information about those on Hart Island.