Washington (CNN) -- Predictions of super PAC-fueled campaign ugliness seemed to come to reality on Thursday when reports broke of a potential conservative group's ad campaign aimed at tying President Barack Obama to a controversy many thought put to rest nearly four years ago.
Titled "The Defeat of Barack Hussein Obama: The Ricketts Plan to End His Spending for Good," the ad campaign was to play off racial undertones and called for what the proposal described as an "extremely literate conservative African-American" as its spokesman, according to the Times.
The campaign would "do exactly what (Sen.) John McCain would not let us do," the Times reported the strategists writing.
The presumptive GOP nominee's campaign also came out against such attacks when asked to respond to the report.
Thursday's super PAC dust-up calls to mind some of the more nasty campaign tactics used in the Republican primaries earlier this year and poses the question of just how involved outside groups will be in stoking the already-heated fight between the Romney and Obama camps.
A relatively new addition the political game, super PACs were made possible by a 2010 Supreme Court case, known as Citizens United, that ruled in favor of allowing corporations and unions to raise and spend unlimited amounts of money so long as they do not coordinate with the campaigns they support.
Paul Sracic, chairman of the political science department at Youngstown State University in Ohio, wrote in a CNN op-ed this week that while most commentary about Citizens United has been focused on conservative groups, Democrats will also reap benefits from the gorge of spending.
Priorities USA has reported spending $2.1 million this cycle, according to Federal Election Commission reports, and co-purchased an ad buy last week on a negative spot tying Romney to big oil.
And earlier this year on CNN's "The Situation Room with Wolf Blitzer," McCain said, "Now it's the system under which we operate, which leads to this kind of campaigning and will lead to corruption and scandals.