Her rib knit shirts and dresses last longer than usual fast-fashion fare, she says, because the people who make them bring a legacy of craftsmanship and manufacturing expertise.
A handful of brands and retailers are banking on that, hoping consumers will pay a premium for the stories behind their labels, and that their efforts will mirror the farm-to-table movement.
Small Trades is just one brand that will be featured on Zady, a shopping site launching this week dedicated to fashion transparency.
We see it over and over again in factory disasters around the world," Darabi said.
A series of deadly incidents in the past year in overseas garment factories prompted widespread outrage and calls for companies to improve conditions and oversight.
Co-founders Darabi and Maxine Bédat say they are targeting people like themselves, style-conscious and socially aware shoppers who have outgrown their trendy wardrobe of cheaply made goods.
Darabi, who had made a name for herself as a digital strategist at the New York Times and co-founder of Foodspotting, served as a consultant.
Several e-tailers with a heavy emphasis on American-made products, such as Made Collection and Huckberry, play up the stories of makers with transparent sourcing and manufacturing and the fashion universe is full of sites dedicated to ethical and sustainable fashion.
Everlane founder Michael Preysman said "radical transparency" was the company's philosophy from the start, and it established a pattern of transparent pricing, listing costs and markups for each of Everlane's bags, shirts and belts.
Brad Bennett uses the term "honestly crafted" to describe the goods featured on his site, Well Spent, which started under the name Commerce With a Conscience in 2009.
That's why some big-name brands, including Apple, Motorola and Levis, are starting to make some products in the United States, he said.
When it launches this week, Zady will include information on where products are made, the raw material sources and a story about each brand's origin.
Darabi tweeted images from the tour and posted photos to Instagram: awards hanging from Pleam's office walls, a picture of his great-grandfather Aaron Hornberger, bundles of waffle knit fabric, calendars hanging from work stations.
Since then, he's laid off most of his workforce and cut their benefits, although he tried to make up for it by increasing hourly wages by $1.50 so they could pay for their own insurance.
But it was also a story of struggle and uncertainty.