Bangkok turned into a war zone Wednesday, as Thai military forces cracked down on anti-government protesters, ending a tense standoff that has troubled the capital for weeks.
However, amid ongoing anger over a crackdown by security forces last month and a refusal by the protesters to comply with a deadline to vacate the district of Bangkok -- until Wednesday -- authorities say the election date is now under threat.
"I would like to give moral support to officers who are doing their duties now and would like to reassure you," Prime Minister Abhisit told citizens.
"Negotiations failed because core (opposition) leaders are not able to make decisions by themselves," the statement said, alluding to an outside force influencing the protesters.
Those protesters donned yellow shirts (the color of the king) and occupied the two main airports in Bangkok, until finally the pro-Thaksin government was brought down by a court ruling.
They simply want the government to shut down the Reds to end the violence and interruptions to daily life.
That was designed to show their allegiance to the king and more broadly the traditional elite which has dominated Thai politics for years.
Finally, the army ousted Thaksin in a coup, which had the backing of the aristocratic elite and much of the middle class, who were becoming uneasy with the cult of personality growing around the leader.
From his self-imposed exile abroad to avoid a trial on corruption charges, Thaksin released a statement Wednesday saying that he was not the leader of the United Front for Democracy, the formal name of the Red Shirt opposition, and that their movement calling for new elections is not on his behalf.
If you sport red, you think Thaksin was the only prime minister to offer the rural poor a voice and real benefits; if you wear yellow, you view him as opponents of the Philippines' Ferdinand Marcos saw that leader: greedy and dangerous.
If the divisions in Thailand can't be healed, it could lead to a deteriorating security situation which would have wider implications for the region.
The worst case scenario would see Cambodia drawn into the dispute, with Thaksin using the country as a political base, adding to the already considerable tensions on the border.