That line of thinking is being raised following Washington state's disaster in Snohomish County, where at least 17 people died and 49 structures were destroyed after a fast-moving landslide buried a square mile in up to 40 feet of mud.
But no one had foreknowledge of Saturday's catastrophe, he asserted.
As rescue teams still seek survivors in the mud almost a week later, the disaster prompts new questions about how the local government allowed homes and a community to remain in the path of a potential landslide -- a peril that was highlighted as recently as 1999 in a Seattle-based geomorphologist's report to the Army Corps of Engineers.
Jay Inslee acknowledged the seriousness of a broader review, but said the state has a more urgent matter -- finding additional survivors or bodies first.
He co-wrote the 1999 report for the Army Corps of Engineers that looked at options to reduce sediments from landslides in the area.
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers spokeswoman Patricia Graesser said the study spoke to how people were living in the landslide area but the report wasn't a risk assessment of landslide hazards.
"What we're looking at in those sites is silt entering the river and silt in salmon spawning beds, and could we do something to restore their habitat," Graesser said.
"The primary conclusion to be drawn is that mass wasting activity will persist for as long as the river remains at the toe of the landslide."
While there were indications that a "very large" landslide was possible, no one knew how it might happen or how devastating it might be.
Among the attractions for residents is recreational fishing on the nearby river, prized for its trout and salmon, said Haugerud, the research geologist with the U.S. Geological Survey.
It's also a place where residents don't take kindly to government intrusions, he added.
Laser technology by low-flying aircraft now allows geologists like Haugerud to get a better picture of the topography underneath the dense Cascade forests, he said.
Speaking as a Washington state resident -- and not as government geologist -- Haugerud said reforms may be needed to ensure local officials impose stricter regulations in landslide zones.
CNN's Greg Botelho contributed to this report.