(CNN) -- It was just before Christmas when Michel Martelly mulled over events in his troubled land and concluded that everything had been done to ensure loss for him at the polls.
Already the poorest nation in the Western Hemisphere, Haiti is reeling from devastation caused by last year's massive earthquake followed by a cholera epidemic later in the year.
Martelly's victory falls in line with the signal the Haitian people have been sending for a while, said Garry Pierre-Pierre, editor and publisher of the New York-based newspaper The Haitian Times.
On the streets of Port-au-Prince, thousands turned out to chant one of his most popular nicknames: "Tet Kale," which means bald head in Creole.
But at first, the election council said Martelly had placed third, behind Manigat and Celestin, meaning he was not eligible for a runoff.
It was exactly what the candidate had hoped for back in December when he laid out for CNN his plan to lift Haiti out of its misery.
He sat at a table surrounded by a piano and eight wall-mounted speakers.
Martelly spoke of 24 years of troubled times, of a poor country that, he said, hurtled backward into even more poverty.
Haiti will go nowhere, he said, unless the people have a president they can trust, a president who is honest.
He said his background in music as well as social work -- he founded an aid agency that helps the poor -- gave him 22 years on the ground.
He said, for instance, that the $12 billion that was pledged by the international community for earthquake assistance should come in the form of infrastructure, not money, because Haitians don't know how to manage money.
Wilentz said Martelly is a big unknown -- a pro for voters perhaps but a con for those trying to measure up the next few years of Haitian history.
Jean-Bertrand Aristide was popular in his own right as a man of the church but he also rose to power because he was not from the establishment.
But look what happened to Aristide, Pierre-Pierre said, referring to the fall of Haiti's first democratically elected president, who coincidentally returned from exile just days before last month's election.
Irwin Stotzky, a University of Miami lawyer who has studied human rights in Haiti, said Martelly hardly had the credentials to run the country and did not see much hope for the immediate future.
When asked in December whether a man who made a name dancing and singing had the mettle for his nation's top job, he smiled.