This is where the Fab Four stayed when they first came to Hollywood in 1964, no doubt trailed by dozens of screaming girls and photographers as they ushered in the British Invasion.
Looking at least a decade younger than his 71 years, Starr settles into the corner of a couch and talks about celebrity then vs. celebrity now -- this from the perspective of a man who has been famous for nearly 50 years.
The celebrity of today is so documented that I think it's a lot harder now.
As one of two surviving Beatles, people are treating him like a living treasure -- and these days, he and Paul McCartney seem to be treasuring each other.
He produced it himself and recorded it in Los Angeles with a number of his buddies, including producers Don Was and Dave Stewart and Eagles guitarist Joe Walsh, who also happens to be his brother-in-law.
I like to write songs, and I like to collaborate with other writers.
It's a pity that a lot of the reality singing shows -- somebody gets a shot for a minute, and even the winner seldom lasts more than a year.
It was hard enough, and thank God, there were four of us to keep each other in some sort of reality.
Starr: Well, we did, because we all had our moment, and then John or one of them would look at me and say, "Excuse me?!"
I would like to be able to change it, but I don't have that power.
CNN: But it's not the same without you.
He surprised me in New York, and he jumped up to do the Beatle track "Birthday," and I was not going to miss that so I just ran to the drum kit, and that was fun.
We did the David Lynch show a couple of years ago, so we have done that.
Starr: Well, the door is open that Paul and I might play together, but it is not like a reunion.
After all of the time, everybody has ups and downs.
It was great, and he seems really happy and that is good.
She mixes right in and she loves music, so it can't be bad.
Starr: As we all know, the world is going through a change, especially in Egypt and the Arab countries.
And it is great to see there is a lot of this (gives peace sign) going on in the world, and that is what it's about.
But usually whoever is in power, as it seems, is injuring a lot of its own people.
So if you put all of those seconds together, then soon you have got some time and it will make a change.
I am making records, I am going on tour, and then I am off to do whatever else I want to do.