Our mission on the other side of the world: Retrieve a missing nuclear trigger before it falls into enemy hands.
Welcome to Operation Spy at the International Spy Museum (www.spymuseum.org) in Washington, D.C. "Today intelligence is the first line of defense against ideology-driven terrorism, nuclear proliferation, and other threats to our country," explains Peter Earnest, executive director of the International Spy Museum, who spent 36 years at the CIA.
The kids loved Operation Spy and the spy tools in the museum's permanent exhibits -- a Soviet listening device hidden inside the heel of a target's shoe, a lipstick pistol and poison gas gun nearly as much as they loved the gift shop, which offered every spy toy imaginable.
New lasers in hand, we adjourn next door to the upscale Zola restaurant (www.zoladc.com), which has a sophisticated ambience and menu to please the grown-ups, as well as a welcoming attitude toward kids ... not to mention terrific fries.
The theme of this hotel is "art in motion" and when we get to our room, the kids find personalized cartoons drawn by a local cartoonist and an iHome to plug in their iPods.
The boys, of course, would have preferred to never leave the hotel but I promise we can skip all the "boring stuff"" -- like the Capitol Building, the Supreme Court, all art museums and even the White House.
They declared "Shear Madness," which has been running in the Kennedy Center's Theater Lab (http://www.kennedy-center.org/) for almost 20 years, a high point -- with campy humor and the opportunity for the audience to help solve the scissor-stabbing murder of a concert pianist who lives above the hairstyling salon.
At the National Air and Space Museum (www.nasm.si.edu) where a new exhibit, America by Air, will open next month, the boys were most interested in the gift shop -- until they discovered the Simulator Rides ($8 each) that allowed them to try their skills as a pilot and gunner aboard an F-4 Phantom II Jet Fighter.
I insisted they see the original 1903 Wright Flyer but after a cursory look, they were done.
The Smithsonian museums and the capital will be here next trip.