This Tuesday on CNN Student News, we're taking you under the big top.
We're gonna start in southern Illinois, in the city of Cairo.
The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers came up with this plan to help Cairo and some other communities nearby.
But just to get an idea of how much water we're talking about, a commander with the Army Corps of Engineers offered an analogy.
He said the water that's rushing through the Mississippi right now, in one second, could fill up an area the size of a football field 44 feet deep.
On Sunday, officials went door to door to alert others that they may also need to leave their homes.
The mayor of Memphis is confident that all those who need to escape the rising waters will be evacuated.
AZUZ: Well, the global economy is one of the big issues ahead as representatives from the U.S. and China meet in Washington this week.
Since they're the world's biggest economies, what each country does -- its economic practices, the decisions it makes -- can have a pretty big impact on the other nation.
The owner announced it's being shut down after Japan's prime minister warned that Hamaoka was vulnerable to natural disasters, like the ones that damaged the Fukushima plant.
The system is filtering out radioactive substances so that engineers can go in and shut down the reactor.
Fear of heights is acrophobia, from the root word acro, which means height.
AZUZ: That's also where we get the word acrobat, like tightrope walkers and trapeze artists; the kind of folks you'd see in a circus.
It's the oldest of two college circus programs in the country; the other is at Florida State.
ROWLANDS: Sarah was a gymnast in high school, but like most of her teammates had no circus experience.
ROWLANDS: Senior Nena Woo, who broke her arm in a trapeze fall, says after graduating, she wants to join a professional circus.
Dating back more than 80 years, Gamma Phi Circus puts on a series of shows at the university.
AZUZ: A school without grade levels: We talked about this last Wednesday.
Alexis starts us off: "It would help with discipline problems, but with everybody working at their own pace, some students won't get the push they need."
All kids deserve to be with kids who are going through the same things."
This mini-me here is the newest addition to a safari park in Florida.
One thing's for sure: she does not have a dry wit, or any kind of a sense of humor, really.
I'm Carl Azuz, and CNN Student News will be herding back your way tomorrow.