It has become one of the most recognized political songs of popular culture and its release on the 1963 album "The Freewheelin' Bob Dylan" arguably marks the pinnacle of the protest song as a cultural force.
"There was a particular genre of songwriting which Dylan represented in the sixties and seventies which doesn't continue in quite the same way," says Professor John Street, head of Politics at the University of East Anglia and author of "Politics and Culture."
Suddenly, in a world where the counter culture was brushing the brim of mainstream culture, even rock n' roll, which hitherto had limited itself to the subjects of love, sex, cars and dancing, was overflowing with political messages; Jimi Hendrix played a version of the "Star-Spangled Banner" which was interpreted by many as an anti-Vietnam statement.
Parallels can be drawn between the political climate of the 1960s and today: a fear of communism has been supplanted by a fear of terrorism and even George W. Bush himself has pointed out similarities between the Vietnam War and the conflict in Iraq.
While the Iraq war has seen some of the 1960s' stalwarts re-emerge, with Neil Young calling for George W Bush to be impeached and Bruce Springsteen releasing an album of thirteen covers of protest songs by Pete Seeger, none of yesterday's stars wield the same influence with today's young as they did when they were at their peek.
"The idea that we should listen to people like Bono and Geldof on Africa is in a part a product of the thought that musicians were not merely crafters of nice tunes but were actually serious commentators on our world," says Street.
While the Live 8 concerts were met with cynicism by some - "for many of the people listed in this line-up... it's a chance to get on world-wide television, sell a load of albums and feel very pleased with yourself at the end of the day," said Janet Street-Porter in the UK's Independent newspaper - they succeeded in bringing on board the world's media and in exerting pressure which led to the cancelling of debt for the world's poorest countries and $50 billion in aid promised.
The legacy of Live8 will determine which relationship between music and politics is the most effective.