In one recent week, the medical student sent 40 e-mails and 399 text messages, snapped 25 photos, bought two movie tickets, downloaded four songs, watched a full-length film, checked the weather forecast 15 times, shopped at Target, surfed the Web for 129 minutes and spent 5½ hours socializing with friends on Facebook -- all from his iPhone 4S.
As part of our Our Mobile Society series on how phones and tablets are changing our lives, CNN asked a handful of people to document everything they do on their smartphones over the course of a week: every text, every tweet, every minute spent scrolling through Instagram or playing "Words with Friends."
The idea was simply to demonstrate, whether we realize it or not, how much of our daily lives now is conducted through these little glowing screens.
Somehow, she also spent another nine-plus hours that week using her phone to surf the Web, play games, check her bank balances and listen to audiobooks and music.
"While some people may feel tied to their jobs because of technology, I am happy to have the advantage of owning a smartphone.
Like Baker, most people who shared their smartphone-usage habits said they view their phone as a hugely positive thing in their lives, not a burden or the root of an unhealthy addiction.
And like the others, he finds it difficult to go more than a few minutes without checking his Droid Razr.
Smith, the Louisville med-school student, said he didn't realize just how much he used his iPhone until he documented his usage for a week.
It is almost an anatomical appendage, attached to my person as though it were a part of my hand," he said.
After jotting down all his phone usage and staring at the page -- almost 800 text messages sent and received -- Smith wondered whether he was relying on his phone too much.
Smith also uses his phone to study and do medical research, and he believes the benefits of using it outweigh any potential downside.
"I do not want to be trapped by the confines of a desk and chair, and today's world is not as compatible with that type of device.