Here's a selection of fantastic rides from around the world that take anything from a day to several months to complete.
Whether or not the 800 kilometers (500 miles) between the Tibetan city of Lhasa and the Nepalese border is the planet's most beautiful ride depends on your idea enjoyment of sometimes bleak high-altitude vistas.
For the sufficiently committed this remains one of the globe's true adventures, from the religious and cultural wonders of Lhasa and Gyantse to the prayer flag-draped peak of the Gampa La mountain pass, with the vast, turquoise lake, Yamdrok Yumtso, shining in the valley below.
Those in less of a rush can spend as long as they like, whenever they like, tracing the route of the 16th-century Spanish conqueror Juan de Cavallon, the chief conquistador of the title.
The NSCR, which also goes by the slightly less evocative name of Euro Velo Route 12, is a Euroskeptic's nightmare -- an EU-funded epic across eight countries that claims to be the longest signposted cycle route in the world.
At a shade more than 64 kilometers (40 miles) this is perhaps the only route on this list on which riders could reasonably consider taking their kids the full length without worrying about a visit from social services.
The segregated cycleway, which also has a lane for pedestrians, for the most part runs alongside the road, though there are diversions, not least the longer, more gentle and thus more leg-friendly slopes up to the high road bridges.
Yes, there are tolls on the bridges for cyclists, but these are pretty small, more necessitating a pocket of change than a bank loan.
If that's not enough to think about, weather conditions mean the trip is only really feasible from June to September, and even then flash rains can make sections impassably muddy for weeks at a time.
A vastly ambitious, recently completed 960-plus kilometer (596 miles) off-road route through the forested wilderness -- Munda Biddi means "path through the forest" in the local indigenous language -- it runs from near the state capital, Perth, to Albany in the far southwest.
This 160-kilometer route (99 miles) is hardly alpine in outlook, crossing some of the most stereotypically lush and rolling English countryside you can imagine.
Some hardy souls tackle the entire thing in a day, but there's an argument that pedaling furiously through some of England's most glorious vistas kind of misses the point.
Peter Walker is a journalist based in the UK who regularly contributes to cycling publications.