At the smoldering headquarters of candidate Jude Celestin, one man shouted that life was better under the Duvaliers, referring to years of Haiti's father-son dictatorship.
He accused the government of adding the names of those who perished in the earthquake to voter lists, to push the vote in their favor.
Early Wednesday, the normally bustling city felt an eerie quiet as residents hunkered down in their homes, fearful of potential danger on streets normally jammed with people and traffic.
which means bald head in Haiti and is the moniker used by the popular musician and presidential candidate Michel Martelly.
"Since then, the whole country reacted and is now in turmoil.
Polls had suggested Martelly, a political novice, had emerged as a front-runner, but the Provisional Electoral Council announced Tuesday night that he had come in third behind former first lady Mirlande Manigat and Jude Celestin, the head of the state-run transportation company who was handpicked by President Rene Preval as his successor.
It said candidates have a legal recourse to pursue a challenge -- and they should use it.
"We did not ask for anyone to take to the streets," Supplice said.
The next president of Haiti will inherit the daunting task of leading this Caribbean nation in its struggle to recover from years of dictatorship and poverty compounded by the killer earthquake, Hurricane Tomas and now a cholera epidemic that has sickened almost 100,000 people.
The council said Manigat, a Sorbonne-educated professor and a former first lady of Haiti, led the presidential election with 31.37 of the votes.
"Like others, the government of the United States is concerned by the Provisional Electoral Council's announcement of preliminary results from the November 28 national elections that are inconsistent with the published results of the National Election Observation Council (CNO), which had more than 5,500 observers and observed the vote count in 1,600 voting centers nationwide," the embassy said.
In a tense scene Wednesday, protesters faced off with U.N. soldiers from Brazil tasked with guarding the road at the entrance of the electoral council's office.
It was time, he said, for the government to deliver.