Julian Zelizer says interest groups have eroded the quality of America's democratic process.
We don't yet have solid evidence as to whether the protesters were local citizens simply expressing their genuine concerns about the cost of the health care proposals -- concerns that have been showing up in recent polls -- or whether they were people primarily recruited and sent into these meetings by such groups as FreedomWorks, Americans for Prosperity, and Conservatives for Patients' Rights.
While advocacy organizations have long worked on letter-writing campaigns to members of Congress -- where citizens are asked to sign and send letters in support of or against legislation -- the coal scandal provides evidence of a practice of claiming support without any consent.
While trying to avoid the assassin whom he hired, Bulworth spends the weekend railing against the power of lobbyists and interest groups in the political process, explaining to citizens in one inner-city neighborhood that politicians will never pay attention to them because they don't contribute enough money.
The truth is that there are many kinds of interest groups, dealing with all sorts of issues and reflecting all sorts of political perspectives.
Interest groups have also eroded the quality of our political system even when they are not engaged in corruption.
In 2005 and 2006, for example, the nation learned how Jack Abramoff's lobbying firm worked with Ralph Reed's conservative organizations to mount Astroturf protests against state efforts to legalize gambling because they threatened Native American groups that were clients of Abramoff.
The concern is not primarily about rabble-rousers, who frequently emerge on the left and right at these events, employing disruptive tactics that we have seen since the 1960s.
Such tactics would dangerously threaten to close one of the few remaining doors in the democratic process to everyone other than those with the largest resources.
This is not an issue that can be solved through regulation, since our democracy must always protect and cherish the right to organize and mobilize politically.