The shires are far from unsophisticated, even if one still must trade Louboutins for Wellingtons when taking those long country walks.
Crumbling estates have been restored into plush, contemporary hotels.
By the end of last year, the modern London design house Fox Linton Associates had left its mark not only on Coworth Park but also on the redo of this 18-bedroom property in the Cotswolds.
Garden-inspired furniture and soft creams and whites play off honeyed stone, and the spa pays further homage to Verey with treatments that highlight the rejuvenating power of plants.
Now inns like The Master Builder's at Buckler's Hard (themasterbuilders.co.uk) offer some of the area's top accommodations for less than $250 (choice rooms are in the 18th-century main building).
The 22,000-square-foot organic spa, which opened this winter, is the best of its size outside London.
Beginning in 2003 with an upscale food market selling products cultivated on-site, Daylesford now has a café, a cooking school and a clothing store, and it's become a destination for a certain London sort (Kate Moss, Liz Hurley, Kate Winslet) who makes the 90-minute drive from the city or has a country home nearby.
Carole Bamford's five-year-old Bamford Body line of organic products is now available in the States at Barneys New York.
This restored 18th-century Georgian manor, the latest property from the Dorchester Collection, opened in the fall on 240 acres, only 15 minutes from Heathrow and within walking distance of Windsor Great Park, home of the prestigious Guards Polo Club.
There's also a spa (the Dr. Alkaitis-brand facials use 100 percent edible ingredients) and three restaurants from Michelin-starred chef John Campbell.
So it comes as little surprise that the area is increasingly attracting British gastronomes, like London-based, Dorset-born chef Mark Hix, who opened this 45-seat spot in 2008.
The balcony is delightful at lunch, especially for Portland Royal oysters served with a glass of Sancerre.
Debuting in May, the 2011 show, War and Peace at the Circus, will feature scenes inspired by Tolstoy's epic novel.
The most ambitious is Butterfly World, a $40 million development conceived by British lepidopterist Clive Farrell, which will be the world's largest indoor butterfly house when it's completed in Hertfordshire next year.
On a much smaller scale, there's Amberley Castle's Mistletoe Lodge, a private dining space for just two.
Courses start at $75; cottages, from $285; thymeatsouthrop.co.uk.
Now she's opened up her Rolodex, curating country house parties in a converted barn at a 15th-century stone manor in the Cotswolds.
Establishment accepts no charge/credit cards or accepts cards other than the American Express Card.
The thriving British beach holiday of the 19th century waned over the years as travel to other European seaside resorts became more alluring.
It's no secret that the English pub, once a place of beer and cigarettes, has grown increasingly posh over the years, with so-called gastropub cuisine even winning Michelin stars.
In July the Duchess of Devonshire entered the ring with her revamp of this seven-bedroom village pub, close to the well-known family manse, Chatsworth House.
© 2010 American Express Publishing Corporation.