Behind the scenes, both men were aggressively jockeying for a plum political gig: The chairmanship of the Republican Governors Association, a coveted post for any aspiring presidential candidate.
The high-profile job would allow one of them to travel the country, gain a foothold in key states, and mingle with some of the GOP's leading financial backers -- all while controlling a nearly $150 million midterm political budget.
But before that line of succession was arranged, the tightly knit universe of GOP governors who comprise the RGA had to wrestle with an uncomfortable dilemma: Jindal and Christie were both gunning for the committee's top job in the same year -- 2014.
The question of who would run the show in 2014, Jindal or Christie, was complicated by the organization's lack of formal succession rules and Perry's unexpected resignation in late 2011 to run for president.
But that scenario did not sit well with Christie and his team of advisers for one glaring reason: He was up for re-election in 2013, making it next to impossible to run the party committee while also campaigning for his own job in New Jersey.
Most of the Republicans familiar with their efforts insisted that the brief but intense campaign for the 2014 job, which unfolded in September and October of last year, was collegial and far from rancorous.
"It just kind of took people by surprise," said the operative, who, like most of the people who spoke about the maneuvering, declined to go on the record discussing internal committee business.
The RGA had become a very congenial organization without a lot of internal politics.
It soon became clear, though, that "Christie had the votes," one person familiar with the whip effort told CNN, citing Christie's argument that it would be best for him to run the committee after securing re-election in New Jersey.
As the dust began to settle in early October, McDonnell managed to broker a deal in which Jindal would run the committee in 2013, with Wisconsin Gov.
If there was any tension between Jindal and Christie, it wasn't apparent at a news conference Wednesday in which Jindal patted his successor on the back.
I think he is going to a great job campaigning across the country for our incumbents and our challengers as well."