But the U.S. political climate had turned hostile toward the growing number of European Jewish immigrants.
Losing hope, the St. Louis turned back to Europe and there, in the months and years that followed, over a third of its passengers perished at Nazi hands.
This is a story of three countries so plagued by gang violence, chaos and poverty that a family would rather pay a "coyote" 18 months of income to take their 14-year-old daughter on a life-threatening 45-day, 2,000-mile journey than have her risk her life at home.
It is also the story of three broken states where the police are infiltrated by street gangs (some copied on U.S. models) and governments -- corrupt from top to bottom -- are helpless in their fight against organized crime.
One immigration rights advocate recalls a mother telling her, "I would rather see my child die on the way to the United States than die on my doorstep."
We can -- and should -- beef up security at the border, hire more judges to expedite the process,and track down the children who skip their court dates.
But those calling for mass deportations of the rest need to think long and hard about what sort of fate we are sending these kids back to.
Surely, we as Americans are capable of coming up with creative solutions that are compassionate as well as sensible, solutions that tell the world (and ourselves) that we still aspire to be good-hearted, noble but pragmatic people.
-- Second, we should push to establish "safe zones" -- operated by the United Nations, supported by the U.S. -- for returning children and their families in their native countries and work with those countries to reduce their violence and expand hope.
Polls show that our citizenry, frustrated and disgusted by years of wars that are ending badly, are more opposed to the U.S. taking on new tasks overseas than at any time in the past 50 years.
We will definitely need to aid them in their efforts, as we did in Colombia where our financial support has helped to stem the tide.
That is the choice we now face.