If you saw a photo of him and didn't know who he was, you might assume from the square jaw, trappings of wealth and arcane haircut that he was the perfect country-club Republican.
For one thing, the Romney-Ryan presidential ticket, which lost the election Tuesday to President Barack Obama and Vice President Joe Biden, was the first in history not to include a Protestant.
The same question could be asked of the Republican Party -- and the GOP's own lack of ideological clarity is probably the exact reason why it nominated him.
On the other hand, the margin of victory rested with a group of moderates and independents who like their politics a little more practical.
His attire was sensible trousers and shirt with the sleeves rolled up, and the family was so wholesomely large that you sensed they could swing a primary just by registering the grandkids.
You could trust this man with the nuclear codes, whereas putting the entire arsenal of the free world in the hands of one of his primary challengers, like Rick Santorum or Newt Gingrich, felt risky.
In these truly competitive primaries, Romney's vote was often rich, moderate and elderly (no wonder Mr. Burns was such a fan).
He won primaries largely thanks to the support of people like him, and he only won because there are so many people like him in the Republican Party.
But whereas Democratic populism is programmatic (health care for all, tax the rich) for the Republicans it has tended to be personal (dress like a cowboy, eat TV dinners).
Romney insisted that he left Bain before it committed its greatest sins, but the image of Mitt cheerfully declaring, "I like being able to fire people" stuck in the minds of many voters.
His performance was so good that it was historic, transforming the election in a way that few have ever done.
This was Romney at his very best -- and it's difficult to image an alternative candidate who could have done better.
He's a man of faith with a record of charity and it would be in keeping for him to dedicate himself to others.
I hope the conservative movement and the pundits will be just as charitable to him