More than a century after James Naismith invented basketball at a YMCA training school in Massachusetts, the sport continues to captivate millions of fans.
College basketball is deeply rooted in North Carolina culture, thanks to the success of the men's teams at the University of North Carolina and Duke University.
Visitors will find that Duke basketball fans don't shower their support only on game day.
Satisfaction Restaurant and Charlie's Pub & Grille are among the favorite hot spots where visitors will discover student and local fans watching the games.
The school has a strong record of basketball success, appearing in more than 40 NCAA tournaments.
They can also visit the 8,000-square-foot Carolina Basketball Museum, located on campus, which holds more than 450 interactive displays, memorabilia and photos documenting a basketball program that began more than a century ago.
The Jayhawks' indoor arena is old-school -- smaller than some college basketball stadiums -- built in the 1950s and named in honor of revered former Coach Forrest C. "Phog" Allen.
In 1952, "Phog" led the men's basketball team to its first NCAA victory.
The street is lined with plenty of restaurants and bars catering to Jayhawks followers on game day.
Sure, the Hoosiers didn't have a stellar season after going 6-25, and they didn't make it to the NCAA Tournament.
If you are lucky enough to get a ticket to see the Hoosiers play at their stadium, Assembly Hall, you will find droves of student fans.
Most fans head to Kirkwood Avenue near campus and drop by Nick's English Hut, where the walls are covered with Hoosiers athletic photographs and gear, or Yogi's Grill and Bar to watch the game.
There is no football team at Marquette University in Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
"It's such a great feeling to know you can walk anywhere in the city when you have a Marquette shirt on a basketball day and people will talk to you about basketball," said Sarah Dembkowski, a sophomore at the university.
On Water Street, where most of the fans crowd on game day, visitors can hang with the locals and enjoy a hub of sports bars, taverns and restaurants.
4 in the South region.
For more than 17 years of the Kennel Club's existence, the Bulldogs have won more than 75 percent of their games, including over 90 percent during the past eight seasons, according to the Gonzaga athletic department.
Meanwhile, Spokane is preparing to host the NCAA first- and second-round men's basketball tournament next March.