Just 48 hours later, Google potentially struck a new blow against privacy when it posted a video preview of its new "Glass" technology -- high-tech spectacles featuring a revolutionary digital interface that enable its wearers to not only view the world through Google's eyes but also automatically photograph all that they see.
And in the same way that a future in which "promethean" data companies like Google rule the world now appears strange.
The EU is concerned about the way in which Google has, since last March, been pooling the data of its individual users across its popular services like search, Gmail, Google+ and YouTube in order to bundle them up for advertisers.
But last week, after nothing appeared to have changed, Brussels raised its warning a bureaucratic notch, promising to take action against Google by the summer.
Regardless of the legitimacy of such practices, I'm strongly in favor of making Google accountable, both legally and morally, for policies that so patently disregard the privacy of its users.
By getting us to wear their all seeing digital eyeglasses, Google are metamorphosing us into human versions of those Street View vans -- now thankfully banned in Germany -- which crawl, like giant cockroaches, around our cities documenting our homes.
According to Google co-founder Sergey Brin, quoted by tech website Mashable, "Glass will also have an automatic picture-taking mode, snapping pics at a preset intervals (such as every 5 seconds)."
Those pics every 5 seconds will be used to aggregate data and then to generate billions of dollars of revenue by selling advertising around it.
But the problem of saying no, of opting out, becomes even more problematic with Google Glass.
You see, the whole point of Google Glass is actually to successfully engineer serendipity.
At the very moment we look at those new clothes in that store window, a special offer for the clothes will flash up on the digital interface of our Google Glass.
Google Glass is currently in being tested with plans for a finished product to be released into the mass market next year.
Not advertisers, nor the government, and certainly not those engineers of the human soul at the Googleplex.
The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Andrew Keen.