(CNN) -- In April 1964, only a few months after President John F. Kennedy was assassinated, his widow Jacqueline Kennedy wrote to Kay Halle -- an old family friend of both the Kennedys and the Churchills -- and gave a glimpse of the dark melancholy that shrouded her.
But more importantly, the Halle correspondence provides further insight into the first lady's relationship with JFK during their White House years and the painful aftermath of her husband's November 1963 killing.
But a wealth of letters and other documents -- including an extensive oral history by Mrs. Kennedy kept under wraps at the JFK Library until 2011 -- remained out of sight, well past her death in 1994, leaving the historical record incomplete.
He provided "tennis lessons" to Jackie at RFK's Virginia home while helping the widowed first lady through her agony and depression.
She shared her doubts about God, fate, a heavenly afterlife with her slain husband, and her children's immediate future.
But soon after a complaint from the Kennedy family, Georgetown access was closed to Jackie's letters in McSorley's files.
Joseph Leonard, whom she first met in the early 1950s, were headed for auction until the Kennedys objected to their disclosure.
"One thing I wish you could help me with," Jackie wrote in her fragmented longhand sentences to Halle.
Jackie let Kay Halle know how to send notes to her social secretary's attention so that she'd read them personally.
In her essay for Halle's book, Jackie recalled how Randolph gave her son, John Jr., a complete set of Winston Churchill's books -- including his masterful biography about John Marlborough, a fabled Churchill ancestor -- which she kept in the Kennedys' Fifth Avenue apartment in Manhattan.
Uncertain of what her son's future might bring, Jackie told Halle that she hoped President Kennedy's heir might discover lessons about greatness from these bound volumes, just as other men had.
Surely, both JFK and Jackie Kennedy, with their keen sense of history, would have understood.