(MentalFloss.com) -- As Napoleon Bonaparte expanded his new French Empire and conquered much of Western Europe, he doled out the spoils of war to his friends and family, whether they wanted it or not.
After Napoleon's defeat and forced exile, the Bonaparte name wasn't winning Joseph any friends in Europe, so he fled to the United States under an assumed and with the crown jewels of Spain stashed in his suitcase.
There, Joseph Bonaparte, former King of Naples and Spain, brother of Napoleon I, Emperor of France, took the title of Comte de Survilliers (though his American neighbors and friends still called him Mr. Bonaparte and referred to his home as "Bonaparte's Park") and went into quiet, suburban exile.
Among the distinguished guests who came through Point Breeze were John Quincy Adams, Henry Clay, Daniel Webster, the Marquis de Lafayette, and Stephen Girard, a French banker from Philadelphia who was then the richest man in the U.S.
Since Bonaparte's wife did not accompany him to America (he did not see her for 25 years after he left), another frequent guest at the house was his mistress, Annette Savage.
"This event has proved to me how much the inhabitants of Bordentown appreciate the interest I have always felt for them; and shows that men in general are good, when they have not been perverted in their youth by a bad education.
During his years at Point Breeze, Bonaparte believed he had a run-in with one of the Garden State's most infamous residents -- the Jersey Devil.
The beastly baby screeched and flew out the window, making its home in the Barrens and haunting and harassing the people who lived there.
As Bonaparte recounted the story, he was hunting alone in the woods near his estate when he saw some peculiar tracks on the ground.
It had a long neck, wings, legs like a crane with horse's hooves at the end, stumpy arms with paws and a face like a horse or a camel.
Napoleon's younger brother, Jérôme, visited the United States in 1803 and fell in love with Elisabeth Patterson, the daughter of a wealthy Baltimore merchant.
Jerome-Napoleon Patterson Bonaparte, great-grandnephew of Napoleon I, was walking his dog in Central Park in 1943, when he tripped over the leash, cracked his skull open on the ground and died.
All rights reserved.