He'd done the trip many times over the years, and he looked forward to the drive.
A visit to the Mayo Clinic in Scottsdale, Arizona, showed Ferrero was in the beginning stages of Alzheimer's disease, a form of dementia.
After his trip to Mayo, Ferrero's wife insisted he get a professional driving evaluation to make sure he was safe to drive.
Now 64, he doesn't want to sit home all the time, and still drives and walks around.
About 60% of the nation's 5 million Alzheimer's patients will wander, according to Beth Kallmyer, senior director of constituent services at the Alzheimer's Association.
"Families are worried their loved one will leave the stove on in the kitchen, or they're annoyed when their loved one asks the same question over and over again," he says.
People with Alzheimer's and other forms of dementia often leave clues that they're about to wander.
If your loved one says, "It's time to go to work," she might truly be headed out the door in a few minutes.
"If they say they want to go to work, tell them 'OK let's go see if we can find your shoes,'" Schonfeld suggests.
If someone is there with them you can block the doors.
Sometimes people with dementia will go wandering off in search of the bathroom or a glass of water and get distracted and actually leave the house.
The Mayo Clinic suggests putting a picture of a toilet on the door to the bathroom or food on the door to the kitchen, so they can more easily find what they need.
You can also enroll your loved one in an adult day care program so they'll have interesting activities.
"Have them take a walk or exercise with you," Schonfeld suggests.
Some devices alert you if a door is open in the house.
The Alzheimer's Association has an overview of electronic devices that can help keep track of Alzheimer's patients, and the association also has information about the ComfortZone and other safety products it sells.
Schonfeld recommends you check out a facility to see whether it has any complaints against it, especially those that involve wandering.
And ask about their strategy for what they do if someone does wander off."
Aaron Cooper and John Bonifield contributed to this report.