London (CNN) -- The family of the British soldier brutally slain in a cleaver attack in southeast London spoke movingly Friday of a man who was a devoted husband, father and brother, as well as a dedicated serviceman.
In the capital's Woolwich neighborhood, where Rigby was slain Wednesday by two men who drove a car into him, then hacked him with knives and a cleaver, a bank of flowers left in tribute swelled by the hour Friday.
A note signed by two army cadets, reads: "I understand the great lengths you would have gone to to protect our British people.
Another woman, loudly sobbing, asked police officers standing by the growing array of tributes: "Why did this happen, why did this happen here?
Attached to a wooden cross adorned with a red poppy, the symbol of remembrance for the British armed forces, it read: "Your passing shall be avenged."
"This sudden surge of interest in the work we're doing to help the wounded and their families has taken us completely by surprise," the charity said, noting that some were buying hoodies and T-shirts like the one Rigby had on.
One of the two, who approached a man filming the gory scene in the Woolwich neighborhood, suggested that Rigby had been targeted only "because Muslims are dying daily" at the hands of British troops like him.
Adebolajo and the 22-year-old suspect also tied directly to the attack are now hospitalized under guard after a confrontation with police in which they were shot.
Abu Baraa blamed Wednesday's attack not on his friend Michael Adebolajo -- who he says is the bloody, cleaver-wielding man shown talking in the ITN video -- but on the British government and said there may be more attacks.
In fact, an ITN video from April 2007 shows Adebolajo standing behind Choudary at a rally protesting the arrest of men who allegedly made inflammatory speeches inside a mosque.
The radical cleric said that although they did not have many interactions, Adebolajo stood out because he was a new convert to the religion.
The firearms unit was called in after the initial alert because British police do not usually carry weapons.
The attack, which Cameron and others called an act of terror, stirred anxiety and alerts in Britain not seen since the summer of 2005, when coordinated bomb attacks struck London's public transport network.
And on Wednesday night in Essex, a man with two knives was arrested after throwing a smoke grenade at the Al Falah Braintree Islamic Center and demanding someone come outside to answer to the Woolwich slaying, said the mosque's secretary, Sikander Sleemy.
"We (urge) our fellow citizens not to be taken in the mindless rantings of the (few) extra extremists in our midst," they said.
CNN's Greg Botelho, Dan Rivers, Jonathan Wald, Carol Jordan, Atika Shubert, Erin McLaughlin and Richard Allen Greene contributed to this report.