The night before, as she was sleeping, it looked like her own mother had nearly emptied her account.
I have met these Danielle Jacksons many times over, young women whose own mothers drag them down even as they already face terrible odds.
"Those mothers can have many needs themselves, and the one person who can fulfill those needs is that child," says Alicia Salzer, a psychiatrist and the author of "Back to Life: Getting Past Your Past With Resilience, Strength, and Optimism," a book about how people can overcome trauma.
Even as she struggled to find baby-sitting and juggle her schoolwork, her mother treated her like a renter, expressing jealousy that Mia was getting to go to school.
One day when Terry was in high school, she came home to discover her mother had gone to live with her boyfriend.
"They have no idea what a normal mother-daughter relationship looks like.
A common thread in such relationships, says Salzer, is substance abuse, because it gives the mother something in her life that overshadows her children, blurs judgment and creates need.
Her mother loomed over her like a dark shadow, entering and re-entering her life as she faced her addictions.
Her mother seemed like she might rally and help her out, but once again, it wasn't to be.
"I thought this would bring my mother and I together, but all she did was cry and cry," Danielle remembers.
Then a relative crashed the car, leading to hundreds of dollars in repairs.
Danielle again had to step in and rescue her mother.
My husband and I started the Soledad O'Brien Brad Raymond Foundation two years ago to help promising girls who were future leaders.
We sent Danielle back to college and assigned a mentor to help her navigate her upside-down relationship with her mother.
"The whole notion that they will just get rid of their mothers doesn't work so well, because I know very few people who can do that, just shed their family or their history.
She has cut off access to her passwords and no longer will give her money directly.
The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Soledad O'Brien.