"It wasn't like a kaleidoscope -- there was no color, it was all black and white," Lutz Pfannenstiel tells CNN, recalling the moment 12 years ago when his life flashed before his eyes, the former goalkeeper suffering an injury which led the club's physio at Bradford Park Avenue to think the German was dead.
After waking up from the accident and finding himself in hospital, Pfannenstiel screamed at the nurses, convinced he was paralyzed.
In South Africa, Pfannenstiel became a folk hero with Orlando Pirates in Johannesburg, his fame even persuading one would be gun toting assailant to apologize for inconveniencing the German as he visited the corner shop for a bottle of water.
At the time the German was enjoying life, modeling for Armani and presenting his football highlights show, but he was then found guilty of match fixing and sentenced to 101 days in prison.
"For breakfast, they don't say good morning, they punch you in the face.
Keen to distance himself from what he perceived was a superficial and materialistic way of life, Pfannenstiel came up with  the idea of 'Global United' -- a charity to raise awareness of climate change.
He hopes to hold the match at the end of 2015 or early 2016 when the weather is slightly more convivial and use the airport on King George Island as the venue as to ensure the local habitat isn't adversely affected.
"If you stand there, you can see the real Antarctica but at the same time, when you look out, you can also see what has happened," he says.
Pfannenstiel has already helped raise awareness of the effects of the climate change by spending a week living in an igloo -- a feat which was streamed online.
He hopes to visit the Amazon later this year and spend time living in the treetops in a bid to bring awareness to the destruction being wrought upon the world's rainforests.
During his time in Singapore, he owned a pet monkey which caused untold trouble in his apartment.
One night under the cover of darkness, he pulled on a wet suit and temporarily borrowed a penguin to take home with him.
As head of scouting and international relations, he scours the planet looking for talented players which he can bring to the Bundesliga club.
"I've had to fight for everything since leaving prison," he said.