"The team had been number one in the world, or close to it, for a lot of years during the disappointment of not winning it," McCaw told CNN's Human to Hero series.
Had we not gone through that, maybe it wouldn't mean as much as it did."
The traditional Maori war dance that the All Blacks perform before every match -- known as "the Haka" -- is one of the most fearsome, and highly anticipated, sights on the international rugby stage.
So it was a matter of great national hurt that the All Blacks had not been world champions since winning the inaugural tournament in 1987, also at home.
McCaw reached his century of caps in the third pool game against France, but his foot problem ruled him out of the match against Canada -- and international rugby's record points scorer Carter, who was to replace him as captain, then suffered a tournament-ending injury in training.
McCaw returned for the quarterfinal against Argentina, in which teammate Mils Muliaina became the second All Black to win 100 caps but then went off with a fractured shoulder.
McCaw played the full 80 minutes in a 20-6 crushing of Australia, then held on to the bittersweet end in a nerve-wracking 8-7 win over France in the title decider -- a rematch of the 1987 final that he had watched as a boy.
While Kirwan was one of New Zealand's star backs, McCaw would go on to follow in the rugged boot prints of legendary forwards such Wayne Shelford, Michael Jones and Josh Kronfeld.
But after a long career as one of the most dynamic and influential forwards in rugby, it's time to take a break -- a six-month sabbatical in which he plans to get away from it all.
That's part of what wears you down a little bit, when you are living in fishbowl like you do in New Zealand, and it's just nice to have a bit of time to be anonymous."
When I go home to the old man we sit and talk way more about flying than rugby," McCaw says in "The Open Side."
When he returns from his sabbatical in mid-2013, McCaw knows that the rugby world will be trying to knock him and the All Blacks off their pedestal.
I know what it's like, I've tried to knock off the world champs the following year.