Widely hailed as one of America's greatest men of letters, the aristocratic Vidal was a high-profile commentator on politics, including his bitter opposition to the war in Iraq and his belief that the United States had betrayed its humble roots to become an imperial power.
Vidal also appeared in a number of films, including the political satire, "Bob Roberts," where he played a U.S. senator.
He riled the right by saying the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks occurred because the Bush administration was "incompetent" and Bush himself was "inactive and inopportune."
So I certainly, wouldn't have changed my modus vivendi one bit," he said of the furor.
"But in the last 10 to 15 years, it turned into this very bitter, not always rational anger with American government across the board.
Author Truman Capote once said he felt sad about Vidal, "very sad that he has to breathe every day."
"And you know, we must honor them because they are so few."
His father, Eugene, played professional football, competed in the decathlon in the Antwerp Olympics in 1920 and, as an aviator, was instrumental in expanding the U.S. aeronautics program.
He detested his mother ("drunks are not much fun to be around") and worshiped his grandfather, from whom he inherited his love for politics.
He was only 23 years old, and I don't think he expected it to be treated as autobiographical, which it wasn't."
Homosexuality "pops up here and there" in his later work, "but never as strongly as in 'The City and the Pillar.'
Following his lucrative TV stint, Vidal returned to writing and produced three widely acclaimed novels that cemented his reputation as an internationally best-selling author: "Julian" (1964), about the Roman emperor who wanted to restore paganism; "Washington, D.C." (1967), the first of his fictional chronicles of American history; and "Myra Breckinridge" (1968), a satirical treatise on transsexualism.
"I would say that since 1945, the United States, which was absolutely the 'mandate of heaven,' as Confucius would say, had fallen upon us," he told CNN in 2007.
Steers, Vidal's nephew, did not elaborate on funeral arrangements for the author, only saying that the family asks people to donate to the Alzheimer's Association instead of sending flowers.
"And I'll be looking forward to seeing him."