Rivers, the pioneering, sassy comedian whose gossipy "can we talk" persona led to a career as a headlining talk-show host, best-selling author and red-carpet maven, died a week after being rushed to the hospital after suffering cardiac arrest at a Manhattan clinic.
Rivers' initial rise to fame was propelled by jokes about herself and her family duties.
Comedians such as Roseanne Barr, Sarah Silverman, Kathy Griffin and Chelsea Handler owe a great deal to Rivers' brash, commanding personality, which was unusual when she first came up.
But their relationship was severed when, in 1986, she became the host of her own talk show on Fox, then a new television network.
Rivers' Fox talk show was short-lived and its cancellation coincided with a dark period in her life, including the suicide of her husband-manager, Edgar Rosenberg, three months after the show was pulled.
Rivers also became known for her extensive plastic surgery, which -- in typical Rivers fashion -- she flaunted rather than played down.
She became a regular at Greenwich Village coffeehouses and was part of Chicago's Second City comedy troupe for a time.
"Joan and Edgar, pursued by the same ghosts and hurts, feeling mutually threatened by adversaries real and imagined, trusted only each other and existed as an island built from intense and protective loyalty," wrote the magazine's Richard Meryman.
A year after Rosenberg's death, she joined the cast of Neil Simon's "Broadway Bound."
In 1978, Rivers directed a movie, "Rabbit Test," starring Billy Crystal as the world's first pregnant man.
"I sat in the midst of an audience that broke its silence only to yawn, take orders for popcorn, and (in the case of audience members under 5) break into tears," wrote Roger Ebert, giving the film one star.
And earlier this year, she abruptly left a CNN interview when asked about her "mean" reputation.
It's my job to make them laugh, and I'm a professional, and my husband was a professional," she told People two weeks after her husband died.
After all, she said, it was her bluntness that made her who she was.
Rivers is survived by her daughter, Melissa, and a grandson, Cooper.