The negotiations would buy time so "we could see if they could get to the end state of a position where we, the Israelis and the international community could say Iran's not seeking a nuclear weapon," Obama told business leaders at a Wall Street Journal forum.
While Netanyahu and Obama have long acknowledged that close friends can disagree on issues, the direct language on both sides about their differences over a possible agreement with Iran shows the volatility of an issue with major regional and global implications.
In the CNN interview Sunday, Netanyahu made clear he opposes lifting some sanctions now -- as called for under the agreement being negotiated -- without getting further concessions to ensure Iran would be unable to continue with uranium enrichment and other steps.
On Tuesday, a bipartisan group of six senators urged the administration to reject the proposed deal with Iran under discussion and only accept an agreement that better dismantles Iran's ability to develop nuclear weapons.
At the White House, spokesman Jay Carney said Tuesday that "no daylight" exists between the United States and Israel on the end goal of preventing Iran from developing nuclear weapons.
The last round of negotiations broke up without a deal earlier this month, with each side blaming the other's reluctance.
After the meeting, Republican Sen. Bob Corker of Tennessee told reporters he remains concerned that the United States and its allies might be about to give away too much to Iran, although he cautioned that an agreement this week in Geneva remains uncertain.
During a visit to the U.N. General Assembly in September, Rouhani's moderate diplomatic approach raised hopes in the West of a thaw in relations with Tehran and progress in negotiations on its nuclear program.
On Tuesday, British Prime Minister David Cameron called Rouhani to talk about this week's Geneva talks and other issues, Cameron's Downing Street office announced, adding it was the first such call in more than a decade.