And any father who would take his children to such things, is not really thinking of the fatherly responsibilities -- is more interested in politics," Paladino told CNN at the Columbus Day Parade in New York City.
Paladino defended that remark Monday, telling both "Today" and ABC's "Good Morning America" that he was referring to the difficult path homosexuals face because of discrimination.
"When I talk about issues such as this, I talk from my heart," he told NBC, "and I expect that the press will properly interpret my remarks.
I believe that young people should not necessarily be exposed to that without some really, really mature background first so they can learn to deal with it.
"There was a couple lines in there that I deleted and never spoke, purposefully, because I didn't want to," he told CNN.
He told "Good Morning America" he had dictated in general terms his remarks to a staffer who put the lines in his remarks.
The written remarks given to reporters were identical to Paladino's spoken comments other than the two sentences in question.
Paladino's Monday remarks came the same day New York police announced the arrest of an ninth suspect in a series of brutal, anti-gay hate crimes against four men.
Asked on Monday whether the timing of his remark was poor, given the incident, Paladino said no.
"That's not the example that we should be showing the children and certainly not in our schools," he said.
However, they are not," said Christopher Barron, chairman of the gay conservative group GOProud, in an e-mail to CNN.
"Carl Paladino's statements are unfortunate and show he lacks an understanding of what it means to be gay," said Gregory T. Angelo, chairman of the group.
Paladino was seen on cell phone video by CNN affiliate YNN Albany last month seemingly threatening New York Post statehouse columnist Fred Dicker, after he was pressed to back up allegations he'd made that Cuomo had been unfaithful in his marriage.
Paladino's campaign issued a statement the next day claiming that the Post sent a photographer to the Buffalo-area house where Paladino's 10-year-old daughter lives.
CNN's Cheryl Robinson, Mark Preston and Jason Kessler contributed to this report.