Giglio, Italy (CNN) -- Italian rescuers and divers continuing their perilous work Tuesday located a second "black box" and the remains of five people in the wreckage of the Costa Concordia cruise ship.
In dramatic transcripts of conversations between Schettino and the Italian coast guard, published by the Corriere della Sera newspaper, the captain gives conflicting accounts of what happened when the ship hit rocks Friday night just off Italy's western coast, leading to what passengers described as a chaotic and surreal scene as they rushed to evacuate.
You get on board -- is that clear?"
Before the discovery of the five bodies Tuesday, authorities had said 29 people were missing, including 14 Germans, six Italians, four French citizens, two Americans, and one each from Hungary, India and Peru.
A friend of two missing Americans, Gerald and Barbara Ann Heil of White Bear Lake, Minnesota, said their family is "holding up very well" despite the agonizing wait for word from Italy, where the retired couple had gone for "their trip of a lifetime" after raising four children and working in their community for years.
The ship appeared stable and its fuel tanks were intact Tuesday, said Martin Schuttenaer, a spokesman for Boskalis, the parent company of Dutch Smit and Salvage, which has monitors in place to keep track of the ship's movement.
Information from the device, along with that from another that has already been recovered and is being analyzed by prosecutors, will provide authorities with "a complete picture of how the disaster unfolded," Macaroni said.
Survivors described the panic that ensued after the ship's collision with the rocks.
Foschi placed blame for the wreck squarely on the captain, saying Schettino had deviated from frequently traveled routes.
Human error can't be regulated, said an official with Cruise Lines International Association, which represents the industry.
"Nautilus is concerned about the rapid recent increases in the size of passenger ships, with the average tonnage doubling over the past decade," said Nautilus general secretary Mark Dickinson in a statement.
CNN's Livia Borghese, Hada Messia, Dan Rivers, Mary Snow, Christopher Cottrell, Diana Magnay and Richard Allen Greene and journalist Barbie Nadeau contributed to this report.