That's according to an internal document from the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, obtained exclusively by CNN, that deals with patients diagnosed with cancer in 2010 and 2011.
"The problem was getting worse and I was having more pain," Coates said, talking about one specific VA doctor who he saw every few months.
"I had already been in pain and suffering from this problem for over six months and it wasn't getting better," Coates said.
But he only found himself on a growing list of veterans also waiting for appointments and procedures.
And the only thing she could tell me was 'I understand that, sir, but I don't have any control over that.'
And the document shows 29 vets or their families were sent the disclosures, notifying them they had serious "adverse events" because of delayed care.
In the Rocky Mountain region, two veterans died, and four families were sent the disclosures or notified.
After CNN's detailed accounting of dela-related deaths at the Columbia and Augusta VA hospitals, a bi-partisan group of Congressmen visited the hospitals, demanding answers.
"The fact that we've had veterans who have died in the very facilities that are supposed to be taking care of them, and not by natural means, by means that could have been prevented is egregious," said Miller, R-Florida.
"I grieve for the families who lost loved ones that could have been with them this Christmas that would be celebrating 2014 today had the backlog not existed," said Miller.
"That's why we asked the question again today, with members of the South Carolina delegation and Georgia delegation, tell us exactly who was disciplined and how.
CNN has made repeated requests for interviews with top officials at the VA, including President Obama's appointed head of the Department of Veterans Affairs, Secretary Eric Shinseki.
We take any issue of this nature extremely seriously and offer our sincerest condolences to families and individuals who have been affected and lost a loved one."
"When we fail to keep faith with our veterans, the bond between our nation and our nation's heroes becomes frayed.
"Someone needs to stand and face the person who suffered and the veterans who have died and say, 'Hey it was me, I let the ball drop,' " he said.