(CNN) -- The Syrian government has said it will let the United Nations enter the country and deliver humanitarian aid to people in need, a U.N. official said Tuesday.
The announcement of the delivery of humanitarian aid came the same day that Syria announced that it was expelling diplomats from 11 countries.
To press for tough action against the Syrian regime, the United States is sending a delegation to Russia this week led by special adviser Frederic Hof, a senior Obama administration official said.
Saudi Arabia's foreign minister, Prince Saud al-Faisal, spoke out against Russia on Tuesday after a meeting of the Gulf Cooperation Council in Jeddah.
"It is time for Russia to change its position from standing by the Syrian regime to sincerely try to stop the violence and support a peaceful transition of power," al-Faisal added.
Ambassador Robert Ford, who has been in the United States since February, when the U.S. government closed its embassy in Damascus.
Despite the expulsions, Syria "stresses the importance of dialogue based on principles of equality and mutual respect between nations, and diplomacy is the necessary vehicle to connect with countries to resolve conflicts between countries, and pending issues," the Syrian Foreign Ministry said in a statement.
Residents of the Hiffa area "have issued a call for help to the U.N. observers after the regime's shelling in the area, and are warning of an impending massacre with the entry of Shabiha to the city," the Local Coordination Committees said.
Separately, "A colonel in the Syrian army was shot and killed outside his house, in the city of Deir Ezzor, by unknown gunmen," the observatory said on its Facebook page.
The head of the U.N. observer mission in Syria, Maj. Gen. Robert Mood, met in Damascus on Tuesday for more than an hour with Syrian Deputy Foreign Minister Faisal Miqdad, the United Nations said.
Many residents have fled their homes, and those that remain are mourning the loved ones they have lost," a U.N. statement said.