The original structure for Chateau O'Brien was an old French farmhouse that Howard O'Brien, Debbie's husband, transformed into a first-class winery known for its large copper doors, wrap-around sundeck and rich aged wines that include a medium-bodied Malbec, a full-bodied Cabernet Franc, an elegant Petit Verdot, and the fast-selling Tannat Limited Reserve and Late Harvest Tannat.
Tasting fees at most Northern Virginia wineries range from $6 to $15 per person, and while some Virginia wine loyalists are somewhat optimistically comparing the region to Napa Valley and Sonoma, there are indeed several standouts that can compete with some of the nation's better wineries.
"All of our wines are made from authentic Virginia grapes," according to Delaplane's website.
On a recent visit to Delaplane Cellars, the large tasting room was crowded and every table overlooking the mountains was filled.
For red wines only, visit Boxwood Wineries in Middleburg, Virginia, a picturesque property owned by John Kent Cooke, the former owner of the NFL's Washington Redskins.
Debbie, who is extremely familiar with the art of wine-making, also prepares snack offerings such as ham and cheese croissants, fine cheese plates, fresh baguettes and gourmet chocolates to pair with wines that age two or three years in French oak barrels.
Here's a tip: Spend a few extra bucks ($35 per person) for the private tasting in Howard's stone-covered cellar where he regales guests with stories from long ago summers and serves fine wine only sold in the private cellar.
It's a great place to spend one night or a weekend after visiting Virginia's wineries and driving through the countryside.
For a more upscale hotel experience and a romantic getaway, try the Goodstone Inn & Restaurant in Middleburg.
Take a stroll around the property, swim in the pool, and here's a tip: Grab a bottle of wine and a blanket and pick your spot on the sprawling pasture at sunset.
Watching the burnt-orange sun slowly dropping behind the mountains is a perfect end to a great day.