(CNN) -- "Well, if it's a comeback you want, then get your hands raised," Jakob Dylan declares on the Wallflowers' first album in seven years, "Glad All Over."
Plus, it's good timing, given the coincidental and unrelated release of the movie "The Perks of Being a Wallflower."
During their time apart, Dylan recorded two solo albums -- "Seeing Things" and "Women and Country" -- while keyboardist Rami Jaffee took to the road with the Foo Fighters, giving them time to explore music they couldn't explore together.
"MTV brought our music to a lot of kids, and even then, we wondered if we were reaching the right audience.
Rob Thomas claimed recently that the Wallflowers were considering naming the new album "North," but Matchbox Twenty (orchestrating a comeback of their own?)
For now, the band -- guitarist Stuart Mathis, bassist Greg Richling, new drummer Jack Irons and Jaffee -- has enough cleverness to tide them over on "Glad," which includes such rousing new tracks as "Hospital for Sinners," "Misfits and Lovers" and "Reboot the Mission," featuring one of Dylan's guitar heroes, Mick Jones.
Most of album's other lyrics address love and spirituality, "but no more than before," Dylan said.
"I mean, the lyrics are planned in advance, but they're not about me, and you won't know the meaning unless I tell you.
Dylan doesn't look down upon fabrication, even the more scandalous form that recently affected his father when journalist Jonah Lehrer was found to have made up quotes from the elder Dylan in his book "Imagine: How Creativity Works" and consequently lost his posts at The New Yorker and Wired.
To demonstrate, Dylan took a song from the new album at random -- "Constellation Blues" -- and came up with a viable interpretation of it on the spot, giving it a cosmic yet nonsensical meaning probably unintended when he wrote it.
Now that the Wallflowers are over their hiatus, Jaffee's other group, the aforementioned Foos, are going on theirs, as announced by Dave Grohl while performing in Central Park on Saturday night.
But don't blame the Wallflowers for stealing him back.