We asked CNN.com readers whether they thought Vick would -- or should -- play professional football again as well as their opinions on the case.
Remember only shortly ago he was stating vehemently that he "only owned" the property and had no idea what was going on there.
As you know it's been proven that those with the ability to do so also have a stronger chance of being abusive to humans.
However, as part of his restitution to society, I believe he should contribute at least 40% of his salary for what could have potentially been his maximum jail sentence to the Humane Society to help abused and abandoned animals.
Jeremy Montgomery of Mount Laurel, New Jersey I think that Vick should not be allowed to step on the field again and any endorsement deals revoked.
Josh Hebert of Loganville, Georgia He should take whatever punishment our government gives him, but when he has done his time (if he does do time) he should be able to continue playing football.
I, for one, will boycott those with future dealings with him.
Unless we make a policy that all players who are convicted of a felony are banned from the league, then Vick should be allowed to play after a suspension.
Anyone with such a blatant disregard for life -- animal or human -- is not worthy of the position in life he was given.
I believe Mr. Vick's NFL playing days should be determined by the NFL commissioner with consideration of the NFL's personal conduct policy.
Even his so-called homies (who were all black) turned on him.
As for playing football ... he should be banned from the league for at least 2 to 3 years, including his jail time.
A suspension is in order and I think a year would be fair, but a prison term and suspension would put him out of football for up to three years, and who knows what kind of QB he will be after this ordeal and so long an absence?
He shouldn't be able to use the obscene amount of money he makes to torture innocent animals.
Debbie Connor of Whitesville, Kentucky No, he should not be granted the right to play pro football again!
Nichelle Williams of Woodbridge, Virginia If Imus is going to return back to the air ... then Vick should return to the field.
John Brandon of Old Hickory, Tennessee To make a long story short -- my family will never watch a game with Michael Vick in attendance.