This snapper refused comment when asked if he still had a tongue.
As the parasite grows, it drinks more blood and eventually causes the tongue to atrophy and disintegrate.
Yes, the whole foster-tongue thing seems like a pretty nice gesture on the part of ol' Cymothoa --until you remember there was nothing wrong with the fish's old tongue in the first place.
When that fateful day arrives, she finds a chink in the crab's armor (usually an elbow or leg joint) and thrusts a kind of hollow dagger into its body.
The female feeds and grows until eventually she pops out the top of the crab, and from this knobby protrusion, she will steer the Good Ship Unlucky Crab for the rest of their commingled life.
Packed full of parasite, the crab will forgo its own needs to serve those of its master.
Filarial worms are the nasty little suckers you can thank for lymphatic filariasis, which, according to the Pacific Program to Eliminate Lymphatic Filariasis, is the second-leading cause of permanent and long-term disability in the world.
Filaria often lodge in the body's lymphatic system, where they can inflict any number of torturous symptoms, not the least of which involves carting your genitals off to the elephantiasis clinic in a wheelbarrow.
After conception, the males die off, and the females hang around for about a year, growing and eating.
The resulting lesion begins to fester and burn, which usually leads the host to plunge his or her foot into a soothing bucket of water.
Not the most pleasant method, but certainly a proven one.
Leucochloridium paradoxum are a type of fluke (a.k.a., parasitic flatworm) that prey on birds -- a fascinating turn of events considering they begin their lives as eggs in bird droppings.
Then they initiate their devious plan of action by taking up residence in the snail's eyestalks.
So the bird devours the stalk and ends up with a bellyful of Leucochloridium paradoxum that will, of course, lay eggs and begin the cycle again.
Entire contents of this article copyright, Mental Floss LLC.