The controversial issue of team orders in Formula 1 has once again tested respect between teammates -- and ahead of Sunday's race Vettel said he would probably do it again given he felt Webber had not supported him in the past -- and raised question marks over the purity of the sport's racing.
Former Honda, Brawn and Williams driver Rubens Barrichello -- who spent six years as Michael Schumacher's deputy at Ferrari -- explained: "In the team meeting before the race you have to talk about various situations.
In his era of racing, that meant if there was a problem with his speed machine, he could simply call in his teammate and take over his car.
The pair shared a mutual respect on and off track, says Moss, even though it was "El Maestro" who would capture his third world title at the end of the season.
On the other side of the garage, the Malaysia team orders drama may have more emotional, career-defining consequences for Webber, whose Red Bull contract expires at the end of the season.
"In my case in Austria there were eight laps of conversation because they told me that I should do something that was not agreed," he explained.
"The year before in Austria I had let Michael by when I was second and he was third and I had that conversation with the team afterwards when I said: 'Listen, what would happen if I was first?'
That career-defining moment for Barrichello also led to a decision by the sport's governing body, the FIA, to ban team orders that directly affected the outcome of a race.
It is, after all, the teams who finance the drivers' fun and it is their brand and sponsors who they are protecting.
"I drove for teams like Mercedes and Maserati and at one time I drove my own car which meant I could do what the hell I liked!"
This constant clamor of commercial team interests means the men at the wheel of the world's fastest cars often have to suppress their racing instincts.
Who wants to watch races that have been massaged and manipulated by team orders?
But the furore across global media outlets and social media sites following the Malaysian GP also proved F1 fans balked at the unsporting flavor of Vettel's victory --- even if he was doing what a triple world champion is supposed to do, race.