The man identified as Suspect 2 was seen setting down a backpack at the site of the second explosion "within minutes" of the blasts that killed three people and wounded nearly 180, said Special Agent Rick DesLauriers, the head of the FBI's Boston office.
In particular, DesLauriers asked for help from anyone standing in front of the Forum restaurant, where the second bombing happened.
DesLauriers cautioned that anyone who think they know their identities should be careful, and consider them armed and "extremely dangerous."
"When the bombs blow up, when most people are running away and victims were lying on the ground, the two suspects walk away pretty casually," said the official, who has seen the unreleased video.
One of the firm's batteries, typically used in remote-controlled hobby cars, was found in the aftermath of the attack, connected to some wires and a piece of plastic.
In the early hours of the investigation, a law enforcement official told CNN that the bombs were probably detonated by timers.
"Every one of us stands with you," Obama told the crowd.
And he looked ahead to next year's race, predicting that "the world will return to this great American city to run even harder and to cheer even louder for the 118th Boston Marathon.
Crowds erupted in cheers as the cathedral emptied out at the end of the service, while others sang the national anthem.
"I think it's incredibly inspiring that he would take time out and visit them and have a sincere interaction with all of these folks that have been hurt."
Photos obtained by CNN show the remains of a pressure cooker found at the scene, along with a shredded black backpack and what appear to be metal pellets or ball bearings.
• Lu, the Chinese graduate student at Boston University who had moved to the city last fall, making friends and soaking up new experiences.
"We stand ready to provide whatever appropriate assistance we can to the family members of foreign nationals in the aftermath of this despicable act of terror," Kerry said.