It is the goodness of humanity that Teves wants the world to know and remember: the virtues of his son -- and the 11 others killed at a midnight premiere of the latest Batman movie, "The Dark Knight Rises," in a cinema in Aurora, Colorado.
In the midst of mourning his first born, Tom Teves has wrested purpose from his grief -- the Alex Teves Challenge, he calls it.
His father says he would have condemned the practice of focusing on the murderers.
Alex Teves died shielding his girlfriend from the rain of bullets.
Fresh out of the University of Denver with his master's degree, he was readying to seek another degree, a bachelor's in physical therapy at the University of Colorado at Boulder.
Alex's mother, Caren, recalls his ever-present smile and appetite for life.
In the elegantly designed Phoenix community of Ahwatukee, where the boulevards are desert-landscaped with saguaro cacti and palo verde trees, Alex was such an ordinary guy of irrepressible cheer that he was celebrated for it by his classmates at Desert Vista High School, a high-performing public school opened in 1996 that sends graduates to the Ivy League.
And now, says his mother, friends and supporters of those slain in the movie theater massacre held a memorial service in Denver with an Alex Teves dress code, and friends in Hawaii told the family they were planning a similarly attired service.
For anyone else, the experience would have been horrific, "but Alex put a positive spin on it," Dastous says.
Alex was an honors student whom other faculty recalled as having a sense of humor, says Anna Battle, principal of the 3,000-student school, one of the largest in Arizona.
"One English teacher said he was a good writer and wrote exceptionally about superheroes.
According to a court document filed by his public defense attorneys, he was also a patient of a university psychiatrist.
Once in intensive care, Alex asked his father to visit one of his friends who was hospitalized because that boy's parents had yet to arrive.
When the man first appeared in court last week in Colorado, Teves was there.
He returns to his challenge to the media.
He worked two or three jobs sometimes, so that their kids could benefit from having their mother at home full-time.
The father isn't surprised by the way Alex responded when savagery slipped inside the movie theater.
The in-laws, Joe and Carla Morgan, express outrage that the suspect's photo appears five times on the front page of a national newspaper, overwhelming any photos of Alex and the others who lost their lives.
He says he will spend his days reminding the media of this challenge in his son's name.