I posed a less-wordy version of that question to Andrew Derocher, a biologist and polar bear expert at the University of Alberta.
(The hope is that such interventions would last days per year, not months).
Derocher's paper, which appeared in the journal Conservation Letters, has been getting lots of attention because it outlines several last-ditch ideas for saving the polar bears, including feeding them bear chow, which, as one commercial website describes it, contains "ground corn, porcine meat meal, fish meal (menhaden), dehulled soybean meal, corn gluten meal, ground soybean hulls, porcine animal fat preserved with BHA, dried beet pulp, soybean oil, taurine, salt" and a bunch of stuff I can't pronounce.
His other ideas: Moving the bears northward, where the ice is less likely to melt; euthanizing some of the bears, which he writes "may be the most humane option for individual bears in very poor condition that are unlikely to survive"; and moving some of the polar bears to zoos.
Polar bears live and hunt from sea ice.
There's no other way around it.
Polar bears are wild animals," James Eetoolook, vice president of an Inuit group in Canada's Nunavut told The Canadian Press.
It's easy to have a whiplash reaction: Don't feed the polar bears.
It's not rocket science (or, as one Twitter user recently suggested as a replacement for that phrase, "it's not corporate income-tax law"), but it will take a huge amount of political will in the United States and elsewhere to make substantive changes.
In his State of the Union address, President Barack Obama called for action on climate change "for the sake of our children and our future."
Researchers from the U.S. Geological Survey have estimated that two-thirds of polar bears will be gone by 2050.
He said he's not a sentimental person -- he doesn't get attached to an individual polar bear the way he does to his golden retriever.
But when you're in the Arctic and you see how much the bears are struggling, it's hard not to care about them as a group -- to want to do something to preserve their wild power.
Editor's note: Join John Sutter for a live video chat about how to save the polar bears on Spreecast on Thursday at 1:30 p.m.
The opinions expressed in this column are solely those of John D. Sutter.