Of course, it wasn't called that 20-odd years ago when I was under contract to be the Jackie Robinson biopic's screenwriter.
Well, once upon a time, I was encouraged to bring Robinson's life story to the screen, only to be discouraged by the way reel life turns out.
Jackie's widow, Rachel Robinson, 90, was guest of honor at a recent White House showing where Michelle Robinson Obama said, "We think everybody in this country needs to watch this movie."
I tapped away on the West Coast on a clunky early '90s computer, not knowing that this cinematic masterpiece I was eager to deliver was doomed.
Apart from being a heavyweight champ, Louis was a model citizen, a military vet and a true difference-maker when too many men and women were still struggling to become color-blind.
It was co-written by myself and a Detroit journalist friend, Jon Pepper, as a specific look at a 1930s span when Louis lost to the popular Max Schmeling to whites' delight, only to transform into a red-white-and-blue hero in their eyes, triumphing in the rematch against a German example of so-called white supremacy.
During which time we discover what quite a few of Hollywood's movers and shakers want more and more of, beyond all else.
"I have a couple of questions," I reply.
"Why would a movie star play a guy who ends the movie by getting his ass kicked?
Someone familiar with our script slips a copy to Rachel Robinson, in the hope she will give her blessings to Pepper and me taking a crack at Mr. and Mrs. Robinson's remarkable tale.
Rachel expresses reservations -- it does not escape her eye that there is no non-Caucasian in the room -- but life is short and she is willing to give it a shot.
I catch a 5 p.m. flight to Pittsburgh for a baseball playoff game, cover it, catch a dawn plane to New York, repeat the previous day.
I hear my producer tell my partner: "He's not putting in enough time on this!"
Rachel wants it a different way.
No one else -- not the producer, not Rachel, not anyone from the studio, not our agent -- ever speaks to me again.
I read in Bill Rhoden's column in The New York Times that director Spike Lee is teaming up with Rachel Robinson to do a Jackie movie.
A quote from Rachel: "He couldn't put all the pieces together -- the studios, the funds, the star, the script.
I've been trying to get a movie done for the past 15 years and haven't succeeded.
I know writer-director Brian Helgeland made it and Chadwick Boseman made it and Harrison Ford made it, but you made it.
I give it thumbs-up and, hey, I haven't even seen it.