San Antonio, Texas (CNN) -- The case of the New Mexico hotelier who required Latino employees to adopt English names and avoid speaking Spanish at work reminds us of the need for balance as we grapple with cultural evolution in America.
I didn't speak English yet, having been home with my mom up until that first day of kindergarten.
My teacher, Mrs. Collins, was a tall, grandmotherly figure with neatly coiffed silver hair and wire frame glasses.
By the end of the school year I was fluent in English.
Call it instinct, or since I was bilingual and my mother rigidly emphasized speaking both languages correctly, perhaps I felt the most respectful and authentic pronunciation of a name should be that of its language of origin.
Thus, I arrived at my own compromise by fifth grade.
It took five minutes to commute from my house in the United States to my abuelos' home in Mexico, where I whiled away countless afternoons playing ball beneath a giant avocado tree in the backyard, devouring homemade corn tortillas hot off the plancha, and listening to the colorful yarns my abuelita spun and the wise dichos (sayings) my abuelito religiously repeated.
And all along, as I introduced myself, I started my name in English and switched gears into Spanish for the second half.
That quick change-up from English to Spanish when pronouncing my brief, four-syllable name stopped me in my tracks more than a few times, causing my cheeks to flush with embarrassment at the struggle of pronouncing the name I had not chosen in the way I had chosen.
Four letters in Spanish.
Surely, it's no surprise that when a child finds challenge in something as simple as their name, he or she will likely also face a complex path in crafting an identity as a multicultural American.
If the innkeeper had taken an empathetic, compassionate approach -- like Mrs. Collins did with me -- he might have elicited a more positive, collaborative reaction from his staff, media and observers.
In the end, if we achieve balance, we can enjoy the best of two worlds -- creating a new one that acknowledges our past while cultivating our future.