The 60-39 vote to prevent a Republican filibuster against the start of debate on Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid's legislation broke down along strict party lines.
Top Senate Democrats, who are trying to pass a bill before the end of the year, spent much of the day tarring their Republican colleagues as defenders of a broken status quo benefitting rich insurance companies at the expense of ordinary American families.
"Whether this nation will finally guarantee its people the right to live free from fear of illness and death, which can be prevented by decent health care for all."
... A vote in favor of proceeding to this bill is a vote in favor of adding to the tax burden of the American people in the midst of double digit unemployment."
If the Senate also manages to pass a bill, a congressional conference committee will then need to merge the House and Senate proposals into a consensus version requiring final approval from each chamber before moving to Obama's desk to be signed into law.
Lincoln, a key moderate probably facing a tough re-election campaign in 2010, said the issue deserved further debate and consideration.
"There's no doubt that this vote will be a critical issue for Sen. Lincoln as she embarks on her uphill re-election bid," said Amber Wilkerson Marchand, a GOP spokeswoman.
Two other Democratic moderates whose support was considered to be in doubt -- Nebraska's Ben Nelson and Louisiana's Mary Landrieu -- also announced their decision to back a full debate shortly before the vote.
Businesses with more than 50 workers, where at least one employee qualifies for government subsidies, would face a penalty of $750 for every full-time employee if it does not offer health care coverage.
Democratic leaders in both chambers have been wrestling with the most contentious issues, including abortion and immigration, as well as how to pay for reform.
Insurers under both plans would be barred from charging higher premiums based on a person's gender or medical history.