West Vancouver, British Columbia (CNN) -- It's more than two hours before snowboard practice begins, two hours before Robert Beck will take his first picture, and he is trudging up the steep icy slope that is one lip of the halfpipe.
For instance, Beck knows the best time to shoot a close-up of White is during his first practice run because the snowboarder doesn't go as high then.
"We're trying to frame it just right," Beck said on the drive from his hotel to the venue.
Beck, who has more than 50 Sports Illustrated covers to his credit, is frustrated even before he climbs the hill.
It's almost like a pitcher without his catcher, though the understated Kinno often is the one who shakes Beck off.
On this Wednesday at the halfpipe, Kinno will have to stay in front of a laptop all day, trying patiently to wait for runners to bring him the cards from the cameras.
Beck's sure he can't and tells Fine that he has a great shot in mind, looking up the pipe as White soars into action.
He lets the photo editors pick the ones they want.
He'll try to nail it the best he can by using a different lens than others near him (maybe a 35 mm while lying down in the snow) and also through the use of a camera on a 12-foot stick he'll hold up.
Beck says when he has used a remote-fired camera, he's able to get other snowboarders in the frame perfectly, but White soars so high that much of the time he's at the top of the frame, if he's even in the picture.
And with Lindsey Vonn such a compelling story, too, he's not sure that he'll even get one image in the magazine.
Beck says he solved a problem with one of the remote cameras in time to shoot the first practice session, but at some point he accidentally hit the focus.
At least 75 percent of photography is problem solving, he said.
He's a little down at dinner afterward because he caught a glimpse of the some of the other photographers' pictures.
There is a picture, looking up the pipe of White, cast against a clear night sky, soaring through the air, on his way to a gold medal.