(CNN) -- Retired Adm. William Fallon resigned in March as leader of the U.S. military's Central Command after reportedly clashing with President Bush.
Fallon: The story is -- the facts are that the situation was one that was very uncomfortable for me and, I'm sure, for the president.
The fact that people might be concerned that I was not appropriately doing what I was supposed to do and following orders bothered me, and my sense was that the right thing to do was to offer my resignation.
We had a couple of hundred thousand people whose lives were at stake out in Iraq and Afghanistan and we needed to be focused on that and not a discussion on me or what I might have said or thought or someone perceived I said.
The situation with Iran is very complex.
I had responsibility for our people and their safety and well-being.
Again, don't believe for a second that the president really wants to go to war with Iran.
It's a confidence issue of do people really believe the chain of command is working for them or do we have doubts, and if the doubts focus attention away from what the priority issues ought to be, then we've got to make a change.
I think that what's really important here is that when I was asked to take this job about a year and a half ago, I believe it was because we were facing some very difficult days in Iraq and Afghanistan and in the region.
I certainly had a lot of combat experience, and I was brought in in an attempt to make things better.
The important items were the people, what they're doing, how to get this job done, how to get the war ended and get our people home.
There's a very, very important military role here in providing stability and security in this country, but that's not going to be successful, as we know, without lots of other people playing a hand.
They would like to be able to raise their families in peace.
We want to have the majority of our people back and we want the war ended.
The right course of action is to continue to work with the Iraqis and let them take over the majority of the tasks for ensuring security for the country and have our people come out on a timetable that's appropriate to conditions on the ground.