She'd found a certain measure of comfort in late-night reunions with her two-legged self, but for the first time since her surgery, the reality of her altered body seeped into her sleeping hours.
As tragic and violent as the circumstances of their injuries were, the 14 people who lost arms, legs, hands or feet as a result of the attack represent a fraction of who undergo amputation in the United States on any given day -- roughly 500 people, according to figures from the Amputee Coalition, the nation's largest limb loss advocacy and support group.
Now in its third year, Chenoweth's movement has been adopted by the Amputee Coalition and retooled as "Show Your Mettle Day," with public outings and awareness events planned around the country for Saturday.
"I was astounded that so many people aren't living their lives out of fear of what other people are going to think," she says.
The journey toward public exposure can be terrifying, but both experts and members of the community agree on its importance in the process of seeing one's self as whole again.
"I remember walking into my children's classroom and all the little kids tilting their heads sideways, like they were looking for the rest of my leg," she says.
No longer able to wear shoes with a heel higher than two inches, she had to get rid of 40 pairs of shoes and adapt her signature style to work with her new prosthetic -- a "realistic" model that cost her $20,000.
Over the past two years, Strut Your Stuff has inspired people to go out in their community for the first time without a cosmetic cover, reveal to co-workers that they're living with a prosthetic, or even leave the confines of their own homes, which they hadn't done since their limb loss.
A boy was about to return home from having his leg amputated, and his soccer team wanted to rally around him on Strut Your Stuff Day with the ribbon emblazoned on their jerseys.
Here are some of her tips for situations your might encounter, both from friends and loved ones.
• It is natural to feel repulsed upon first seeing the absence of a limb, even when it's a loved one or romantic partner.
Peggy Chenoweth has some advice for those who may have questions for people with limb loss.
Within the community, a good sense of humor is necessary for survival and we'll make plenty of jokes -- but that doesn't mean you are free to as well.
The most basic prosthetics are almost a luxury item for most people and often aren't covered by insurance.
Please share your story in the comments below; we're paying close attention.