New York (CNN) -- Jazz master Wynton Marsalis says the blues is the true American music -- the heartbeat and unifying principle of jazz, country, R&B, gospel and other styles -- but it's been relegated to the back of the bus by greed and the legacy of racism.
In an interview Tuesday, Marsalis talked to CNN.com about the primary position of the blues in American music.
He also talks about his father, how slavery has affected the nation, and some lessons to be learned from jazz.
It's in New Orleans music, it's in jazz, it's in country music, it's in gospel.
He and Willie Nelson came 'round in young manhood at a time in the late '40s early 1950s when all of the American music, root music, was all combined.
[It was] basically the same music, so there was an intersection point.
I don't know which one came first.
Who it came from, we did not like them.
That's part of the whole kind of self-hatred that comes from that type of slavery that the black American still labors under.
Rap is the repetition of the minstrel show.
In the aftermath of slavery ... there was a retrenching, and [it turned into] the type of racism that was experienced by people who came to the North.
And that's 20 or 30 years of just thawing and shifting that's attached to 330 years [of slavery], and the thought you can get up and you will be better ... that's just asinine, it's absurd.
It's that combination, those tensions, the east-west tensions, the kind of tension of being a slave in the land of freedom, and the land of freedom itself, the Western mind, the concept of soloing across time, the call-and-response of democracy, direct call and response, the kind of optimism that is American in nature, is in the blues.
CNN: You write that jazz leaves room for individual creativity, but you have to listen and allow the other musicians to participate equally.
... We then fight under the flag of a position, the left or the right, black or white, old or young.
If you don't really want to swing or play with the musicians, there's nothing they can do, because you have the freedom to destroy it.
He wasn't segregated about any music, he didn't care, you could play pop music, funk, he'd say "right, great man."
We were playing a dance at a high school, he didn't know any of the music, but he played all of the music we had.
MARSALIS: No, no, never, I never suffered from that misconception, because he was so much hipper than the people I was around.
MARSALIS: The main three components are the blues, improvisation -- which is some kind of element that people are trying to make it up -- and swing, which means even though they're making up music, they're trying to make it up together.