He goes into the office and shoots at the ground, then darts between there and outside to fire at approaching police.
This brief outburst of emotion, moments after police entered the school Tuesday, was in stark contrast to her cool, calm demeanor as heard earlier on that 911 call.
As a go-between, she relayed his demands that police refrain from using their radios and "stop all movement," or else the suspect would shoot.
"It's going to be all right, sweetie," she tells Hill at one point in the call.
"I thought the same thing, you know, I tried to commit suicide last year after my husband left me," she said.
The gunman never made it to the classroom area, deciding instead to give up and lay down.
"You did a great job," McCray said, shortly after the two met in person for the first time Thursday for an exclusive interview with CNN's Anderson Cooper.
While Tuff worked to keep the gunman calm and spoke with him, she signaled a code to her two counterparts, who immediately triggered a phone tree to tell teachers to lock doors and send children to safety, Hudson said.
The school's existing safety procedures will remain the same while the investigation takes place, Bolden said.
Counseling was made available to the kids, and the school understands that some children might not be ready to come back right away, he said.
Police spokeswoman Mekka Parish has said they would include aggravated assault on a police officer, terroristic threats and possession of a firearm by a convicted felon.
As to any connection to McNair Discovery Learning Academy, why he might have gone into it armed, and what he planned to do once there, authorities have not outlined a motive or a detailed plan.
Before he entered the school, the suspect took a picture of himself with the assault rifle -- which he'd taken "from the house of an acquaintance," said Davis, who did not say whether the weapon was stolen.
Police reacted "very, very quickly" -- including some officers who took up positions with long rifles -- "to engage the threat" and prepare for the worst, said Alexander, the DeKalb County police chief.
And while there initially were fears that the suspect also had explosives, further tests indicated that was not the case: He came in with the rifle and a bag of ammunition, but no explosives.