Rep. Peter King, the chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee, said Sullivan provided answers to 50 questions from his panel about the controversy in Cartagena that embarrassed the nearly 150-year-old agency and raised concerns of a possible security breach.
Grassley is demanding that the White House turn over all details of an internal review that found no wrongdoing by advance staff members, and he renewed his call Wednesday after receiving Sullivan's response that the Secret Service inquiry didn't involve White House records.
The three agents were among the first forced out of the service when news of the scandal in Cartagena broke, King said.
"Because it was disclosed and there was no long-term security matter here, it gives the Secret Service the opportunity to clear up what has happened, do all it can to make sure it never happens again or at least minimizes it to make it very, very difficult for it to ever happen again," he said.
The agent told U.S. officials he didn't realize the woman was a prostitute, and he has not been fired.
The top legislators on the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee said Tuesday that they've also sent a letter to Sullivan asking for information on the incident.
Issa and Cummings also have asked Defense Secretary Leon Panetta to provide details of the military investigation by May 8.
"We wish to determine whether those events were indicative of a pattern of behavior by agents or officers of the Secret Service and need to be addressed systemically or if they instead constituted an isolated incident warranting action only with respect to the individuals involved," said the letter from Lieberman and Collins.
The new standards specify that U.S. laws apply to Secret Service personnel when traveling, rendering invalid the excuse that specific activity is legal in the foreign country, the officials said.
However, Panetta said last week that his department is not investigating any of its troops over the reported incident in El Salvador, while State Department spokesman Victoria Nuland said Embassy staff in El Salvador were being questioned about the allegations.
CNN's Tom Cohen, Dana Bash, Richard Allen Greene, Carol Cratty, Ed Payne, Ted Barrett and John King contributed to this report.