Not too long ago, there were just as many news reports about Beirut's fancy nightclubs and the Lebanese capital's embrace of modern living as there were stories about violence.
Lebanon's army made an unprecedented move by issuing a statement demanding that politicians order their supporters to calm down.
Lawmakers who are most opposed to Syria's influence inside Lebanon -- mostly through its Lebanese ally, Hezbollah -- are now calling for the government's resignation.
On Friday, the man who once led investigations into the targeted killings of high-profile Lebanese officials was killed himself in a massive car bomb in  Ashrafiyeh, the typically peaceful and cosmopolitan district of East Beirut that he called home.
Al-Hassan may have been targeted because he was leading an investigation into a Lebanese politician, Michel Samaha, who is accused of working with two Syrian officials to plan attacks inside Lebanon.
But the government is more interested in keeping Lebanon from getting dragged into the conflict, says Middle East expert Chris Phillips of Queen Mary, University of London.
Throughout the 1990s and into the 2000s, it waged violence against its chief target, Israel, sparking violence between those nations and, by proxy, fanning the tension among their allies.
"They provide in a fair and efficient way, but Hezbollah is also authoritarian, power-hungry and militaristic," said Cambanis, who has reported extensively in the region for the Boston Globe and the New York Times.
Both countries have provided the group, which has a military wing, with financial backing and weapons for years.
After al-Hassan's funeral Sunday, angry protesters clashed with security forces and rushed toward Mikati's office in central Beirut, calling for his dismissal.
Most of the protesters are allied with Sunni coalitions that have long been sharply critical of the Lebanese government's perceived closeness with the Syrian regime, blaming Mitaki for not preventing Friday's deadly car bomb.
Sunnis are in the majority in northern Lebanon, where they have clashed with a small but strong enclave of pro-al-Assad Alawites.
"The civil war there ended not because of any resolution but simply because people lost the will to keep fighting."