As friend Jake Fogelnest puts it, "While (the "Jersey Shore" cast) is out fist-pumping, Liz is in her dorm room watching Netflix."
More than 1.8 million people have viewed a clip of the most memorable moment from the show on Youtube, in which a nervous Lee stepped in front of a microphone at a talent show and blew everyone away with her singing.
MTV also told the Los Angeles Times last year that neither the terms "reality show" nor "sitcom" fully captured the show.
During its first season, one anonymous message board posting, especially, claimed that Lee fell in with her school's geeky crowd as a way to remain "cool" after losing favor with the popular students, and even alleged that she didn't know who Luke Skywalker was.
As a reflection of the rest of pop culture, something it has captured for nearly 30 years, MTV has embraced geeks in a big way (the sitcom "The Hard Times of RJ Berger" will start its second season soon, and there's even a site called "MTV Geek" now).
It's also a cousin to "Made," MTV's long-running series where someone, usually someone who is socially awkward, gets coached into improving something in their life, whether it be working up the nerve to ask out their crush or becoming an athlete or a hip hop dancer.
"Daria made it cool to be a smart chick," said writer Jennifer Vineyard, who worked at MTV for eight years.
Around the time he started in the late 1980s, Toby Radloff was a special correspondent for the network.
Curry, who considers himself a geek -- he registered the MTV.com domain before most people knew what such a thing even meant, then went on to become an early adopter to podcasts -- sees "My Life as Liz" as similar to other reality shows.
Then there's the show that introduced "Beavis and Butt-Head" to the world, "Liquid Television," an anthology of experimental animation that aired in the 1990s that appealed to animation buffs.
Two other memorable shows that were launched off the success of "Beavis and Butt-Head" in the 1990s were "Aeon Flux" and "The Maxx," both series with tremendous appeal among hardcore comic book and animation fans.
"What's been amazing has been the ability to give comic books and creators the same level of promotion and attention that you do the actors and directors," he said.
Nugent also pointed out, "Because it's now being put on MTV, teenagers are seeing it as more acceptable.