Zakaria traces the growing loss of faith in the American dream and the ways that technology and globalization have put millions of middle-class jobs at risk.
Fareed Zakaria: The first thing we have to do is to stop doing what we've been doing for almost 20 years, which is pretending we don't have a problem.
Now this wouldn't be a problem if we actually had that money, but we have been consuming using borrowed money for the last 20 years.
One of the things I'm struck by in talking to corporate CEOs -- these are all real free-market types -- but they all agree that the key to getting growth and middle-class jobs back is that we make massive investments, investments in technology, investments in research and development, investments in infrastructure.
I would argue that we actually need to do a lot more than we did in the 1950s, because in the 1950s there were millions of jobs for semiskilled labor, manufacturing jobs, making steel, making cars.
And GPS, the technology that's now fueling the next internet revolution, the mobile revolution, that was also a U.S. Defense Department project.
Just today in the news, on the front page of The New York Times, China has developed the fastest computer in the world.
It was because the government of China has made massive investments in technology ... in many of these areas we've lost a lot of ground.
The best revenue raising device is a consumption tax, sometimes called a value added tax, or a national sales tax.
You could set it up so that the revenues from that tax would only go into investment, none of it is for current expenses.
Well we can try to revitalize science education in America, which we must do, but it's going to be a long slog.
But we have been this amazing magnet -- the brightest students in the world come to America because we have the best colleges and universities in the world, and we are also seen as a place in which people find it attractive to study and work.
Someone getting a computer science degree at the University of California at Berkeley is being trained at the California government's expense and is then thrown out of the country.
We should frankly make it incredibly easy for these people to stay here.
And yet because of the usual political paralysis and dysfunction, it is right now unthinkable that we would ever enact a program like that.
There will be a primary opponent in your district who will be able to raise money.
[President George W.] Bush had this massive tax cut and it produced almost no growth.
Zakaria: The countries that have been able to maintain a manufacturing base, such as Germany, are really worth studying.
We need there to be more of a coordinated effort by government, business and educational institutions -- a triangle of training.