Washington (CNN) -- On the walls of Barbara Mikulski's Capitol hideaway are some of her most prized possessions -- portraits taken every two years of all the women in the Senate.
Mikulski remarks that there are more women in that photograph than had served in the Senate in all of American history when she arrived some three decades ago.
Democrat Kirsten Gillibrand of New York and Republicans Olympia Snowe of Maine and Lisa Murkowski of Alaska joined Mikulski to sit at a table that came from her childhood home and explained how hard the women of the Senate work to maintain a lost dynamic in Congress these days: comity.
He knows that that is a time that I value because I derive so much from the conversation, from the camaraderie that we have in the hour and a half at the end of a very long day, so I make it a priority when the dinners are scheduled to be there and enjoy that conversation with friends," Murkowski said.
Murkowski replied that just this past week she was able to work out differences in the highway bill with Barbara Boxer, the Democrat overseeing it, primarily because of their personal friendship.
"We know how to work together in the give and take of it and achieve results."
"We're all pretty competitive or we wouldn't have gotten here in the first place, but in order to achieve the results that we are looking for, I think there is less personal ego on the line," she said.
Asked if any of her female colleagues went to her and urged her not to side with her party on this one, Murkowski made clear the answer was no.
"I think that my party is in an unfortunate place right now as viewed by many women in this country who are feeling very anxious about what they believe to be attacks on women's health," she said.
"I remember when I first got appointed, she was one of the first to ask me to visit her, gave me guidance on how things work, how to pass legislation," Gillibrand recalled.
After 12,858 days of service, that makes her the longest-serving woman in congressional history, it's abundantly clear that creating a collegial oasis for women inside the intensely partisan atmosphere is one of her proudest accomplishments.