The sport has continued its relentless rhythm unsure of what the future holds for its record-breaking former world champion, with the most recent update on his condition on the eve of June's Austrian Grand Prix travelling round the F1 community like Chinese whispers.
Felipe Massa, who drove alongside Schumacher at Ferrari, has been to visit his former teammate in hospital on more than one occasion.
In a sport of strategy, where risk and outcome are calculated in hundredths of seconds, the uncertainty and lack of knowledge about Schumacher, a global star, has hung like a pall over the sport.
"Even people in the paddock who should be quite close have the feeling that we don't know what's going on," Schumacher's biographer and respected F1 journalist Karin Sturm told CNN.
Last month, it was announced he was out of the coma and would continue his recovery at the University hospital in Lausanne close to the family home in Switzerland.
"It's a rollercoaster and if Michael Schumacher's rollercoaster takes him and his family somewhere happy then they will have been to places that will have been pretty unhappy on the way there.
Hamlyn, who operated to remove a blood clot on Watson's brain shortly after his collapse and then guided his slow and painful recovery, is credited with saving Watson's life.
Watson underwent numerous operations at Hamlyn's hand but the surgeon credits the boxer's tenacity and indomitable spirit with his recovery as much as medical intervention.
"I think that does come from the sort of tenacity, reserve and determination that you have to have if you're to get to the top of any world sport.
"You have to keep changing the challenge, just moving it a little bit further forward so they relearn and regain their abilities as best they can.
Nico Rosberg has recently commented to the German media that he witnessed Schumacher's famous mental resolve throughout three years as his Mercedes teammate and hopes this will guide the former champion through the next stage of his rehabilitation.
There may just be a moment of inspiration, of interaction, which provides hope when it is least expected -- because that is what happened as Hamlyn watched what he describes as Watson's "miraculous" recovery.
The world waits to see whether Schumacher, the ruthless racer, the sport's record-breaking world champion, can once again be his own inspiration.