New York (CNN) -- Former pharmaceutical executive Gigi Jordan at first appeared calm as she described for a New York jury the last time she saw her son alive, those now-fuzzy final moments before she gave the 8-year-old autistic boy a lethal drug concoction.
We were saying goodbye to each other," Jordan told the Manhattan jury on Thursday during her second-degree murder trial.
"A lot more of the Ambien," she said.
The defense team is trying to convince the jury that Jordan was a desperate mother ultimately driven to kill Jude because she felt caught between her two ex-husbands.
"I made the decision I was going to end my life and Jude's life," she recalled, placing her hand over her mouth.
"Tell us about your state of mind as you crossed the threshold into the hotel?"
Jude and Jordan spent about six hours in the room before she gave him the pills.
"Jude was covered with a blanket," she said.
Her son breathed rapidly at one point and then stopped.
I titled his head back, grabbed his nose, gave him two breaths, then gave him 15 compressions.
On Wednesday, Jordan, fighting back tears, testified that she knowingly gave herself and Jude enough drugs to kill them both.
Asked about a history of suicide in her family, Jordan said an aunt killed herself when Jordan was 12 and her mother tried three times.
She testified that one night Jude started screaming, according to Jordan: " 'Dad bad.
Jude was never able to articulate the word and not clearly like he was screaming at the top of his lungs."
She testified that the boy had been forced to eat feces and do other "gruesome and horrible" things by his biological father.
At an autopsy, four of the painkillers and anti-inflammatories used to kill Jude were recovered undigested from his stomach, prosecutors said.
Brenner said Jordan, believing she was ultimately protecting her son, brought the drugs to the hotel room with the intention of killing them both, but she survived the suicide attempt.
The exact time of the boy's death could not be determined, but Jude's body temperature was 80 degrees, suggesting that when police arrived, he had been dead for 8 to 14 hours, Bogdanos said.
Jordan believed that if she died, Jude's biological father, a yoga instructor, would have gained custody, according to Brenner.
CNN's Grace Wong contributed to this report.