As municipalities grope for ways to shore up budgets, expensive pyrotechnics displays are becoming the latest victims of the economic downturn.
The Greater Flint Arts Council puts on the show every year, and when the city and county said they couldn't afford the $40,000 for the Flint Fireworks Festival, it was canceled last month.
"Although the 4th of July festivities are a very popular community-wide event, we cannot recommend continuation of this costly one-day event during a fiscal downturn," a city staff report said.
The nation hosts about 14,000 fireworks shows each Independence Day, according to the association, and the majority of shows will prevail because communities "realize the importance of continuing this annual tradition of providing their citizens with free entertainment to celebrate our freedom and independence," Julie Heckman, the group's director, said in a statement.
Tucson, Arizona, canceled it's $55,000 fireworks display to save money, but CNN affiliate KGUN reported Friday that private donors stepped in to save the celebration.
You can't give up on that," said Robert Svarz, who has been attending fireworks shows in Joliet for 50 years, according to WLS.
"Not only did they send in contributions, but they all sent notes on how important it was to keep this thing alive," Russ Slinkard, CEO of the Joliet Region Chamber of Commerce, told WLS.
Holding the celebration on Saturday would have meant $20,000 in overtime pay for city workers, on top of the $65,000 bill for the actual show, Mayor Sebastian Giuliano told CNN affiliate WTNH-TV.
While one resident said it would be "unfair" to deprive the town of the show, another said upping the fireworks budget from $10,000 to $35,000 seems irresponsible, WPTY reported.
Blue Springs is one of the few western Missouri towns that allows residents to shoot their own fireworks, and indeed, the American Pyrotechnics Association reported last month that the popularity of backyard fireworks had more than doubled since 2000.
The fine for each citation?