They rend their garments or sing hosannas as if each little survey statistic was handed down from on high, chiseled into tablets.
Psychologically, it gives us comfort to determine our fates, says Dr. David Reiss, a San Diego-based psychiatrist and expert on personality dynamics.
After all, for much of mankind's recorded history, a prediction could literally mean the difference between life and death -- whether it was determining a village's vulnerability to attack or attempting to figure out the size of the coming harvest.
In his new book, "The Signal and the Noise: Why So Many Predictions Fail -- But Some Don't," statistician and FiveThirtyEight.com creator Nate Silver looked into almost 1,000 predictions of the D.C.-based "McLaughlin Group" pundits.
"So they've made progress, whereas people who are trying to make the perfect prediction and take political science and treat it as though it's physics are failing much more often," he says.
And then there's the founder of the onetime technology behemoth Digital Equipment Corp., who said in 1977, "There's no reason a person would want a computer in their home."
In 1936, the prestigious Literary Digest -- which ran what was then considered the gold standard of presidential polls -- proclaimed that Republican Alf Landon would beat President Franklin D. Roosevelt.
Futurists are professional predictors, some of them paid tidy sums for their expertise in forecasting the direction society, technology and nations are moving.
We're always making fun of the fact that we don't have a "Jetsons"-like present of flying cars, she points out, but seldom think about what's required to build that kind of society.
People (like, perhaps, sports talking heads or Washington pundits) often believe predictions are "a single scenario," she adds.
It doesn't help, says Emory University political scientist and polling expert Alan Abramowitz, that there are more polls than ever.
Now it's all done by telephone -- a much cheaper alternative, Abramowitz says, but not necessarily more accurate, what with robocalls, lack of callbacks and sampling challenges based on land line and cell phone users.
Some organizations have adjusted well, others have not -- but all the data are thrown into the mix, a haystack of straws for pundits to grasp.
Instead, many people have used the snapshot statistics as a club with which to pound their opponents -- or they deny their usefulness entirely.
He pointed to a rise in distrust of election results -- from members of both parties -- since the 2000 Bush v. Gore contest.
Sometimes, says futurist Frewen Wuellner, you just have to accept that you don't know the future until it occurs.
There's always something that can happen.