The differences between the two provide a wealth of reasons why they are often at loggerheads -- and no more so than now, with tens of thousands of Hong Kongers taking to the streets to protest what they see as Beijing's undue encroachment into Hong Kong's civil affairs and political structure.
When a British landing party planted their flag at Possession Point on Hong Kong island over 170 years ago, they set in motion one of the most complex political relationships to endure to the present day.
While the island of Hong Kong was ceded in perpetuity following the first Opium War, the bulk of Hong Kong's landmass, the Kowloon peninsula and the New Territories, were leased from China.
"How Hong Kong develops its democracy in the future is completely within the sphere of the autonomy of Hong Kong," Lu was quoted as saying in the state media People's Daily in March 1993.
Sometimes the differences are seemingly minor; one prominent, telling example is of a video, shared on social media, of an altercation over a mainland tourist eating noodles on the MTR, Hong Kong's pristine subway system.
The last poll was conducted in June, when over 40% of those questioned said they identified as a "Hong Konger," rather than "Chinese" (amongst other options), a percentage that has crept up in the past 17 years.
"In the mainland, first of all, we would never hear about something like this because of censorship.
For many, it is what sets Hong Kong apart from the mainland and its reputation for honesty is one of the reasons that so many multinationals have based their regional headquarters in the city.
Hong Kong retains a legal system which closely mirrors the British one, another holdover from the colonial era, but one which prizes transparency and due process and is largely welcomed by the populace.
As a logistics center and the world's "gateway to China" the city relies heavily on re-export of Chinese manufacturing, and inwards tourism and retail demand from the mainland is a significant earner for Hong Kong.