It was also the year of the shooter (and the number 3) as "Battlefield 3," "Gears of War 3" and "Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3" brought players into combat zones with new and creative gameplay.
I tried to include games that I never really wanted to put down until the very last scene.
Not only does the story take a look back and reveal how Drake got started on his quests, but it also tied up many loose plot lines very well.
It looks and feels like a 1940s-style detective thriller with some great voice acting and motion capture animation.
It emphasizes storytelling without forcing dialogue or plot.
"Little Big Planet 2" has a single-player story that has a good plot and supporting characters.
"Deus Ex: Human Revolution" allows players to experiment with different augmentations to enhance their human character.
The story is well-crafted and keeps players involved with little downtime or boredom.
"NBA 2K12" gave hoops fans a great outlet while the real NBA resolved its labor dispute.
"Saints Row the Third" uses them as the canvas of a hilariously funny and sexually charged romp that also offers excellent game mechanics.
Converse with Burt Reynolds and Hulk Hogan.
An independent title that shows what the "little guy" could do, "Bastion" is a surprisingly stunning game with original weaponry, an environment that players put together as the game progresses and narration that literally tells the story of what you are doing at that time.
Let me say first that my top three could be shuffled in any order and it would still be right.
Your character can be trained in any skill at any time, thus assuring that the game is personal to each player.
The Dark Knight returns to his beloved Gotham and discovers it to be just as violent and twisted as the dark halls of Arkham Asylum.
The voice acting remains flawless, while the look of the game and its sense of foreboding throughout make it a pleasure to play.
(PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, Windows PC)
Everything you'd expect from a "Portal" title returns in "Portal 2," with some great additions.
(That's a reference to the original "Portal," in case you're confused.)
(Windows PC, Mac OS X, PlayStation 3, Xbox 360)