On the verdant Reunion Island in the Indian Ocean, three thousand miles from the desert showdown, another Hamilton fan anxiously waits for the Mercedes man to race to his fate.
In Brazil, self-styled Melissa "Hamilton," who is married to Alex "Senna," also used the hashtag to communicate with her idol.
When Hamilton won in Abu Dhabi -- in easier circumstances than expected thanks to an engine problem for rival Nico Rosberg -- and sealed the 2014 championship he was quick to thank his fans in the post-race media conference.
"Lewis has over three million Facebook fans -- with a third of those coming from the UK -- and he has 2.6 million Twitter followers," explained Jon Stainer, managing director of leading sports and entertainment market research company Repucom.
"We saw that Lewis' fans were talking to one another and so we came up with the protocol #TeamLH," explains Roope.
The video messages was then edited into four films, which were broadcast daily on Hamilton's social platforms over the race weekend.
The final film on race day had a million views on Facebook in one day alone.
"This weekend the guy who does my website put together a collage of different clips of messages from people," he said.
Thomas, who is originally from Guyana in South America, has also been galvanizing global support for Hamilton through social media for the last five years.
The initial idea was to unite crew members in North America but when I go on Twitter and Facebook I see people from India, the Philippines, the UK and Germany.
He has something the other 17 drivers simply don't have -- a narrative to rival a bestselling novel, a blockbuster script.
This hip-hop style and the fact that he spends a lot of time in the U.S. make him one of the few drivers who actually appeals to Americans."
Hamilton had been penalized by race stewards after finishing sixth and exclaimed to the media: "It's an absolute frickin' joke.
"In addition to his talent as a wonderful driver, he has a big heart, a great willpower.
"Many friends are astonished to see me kart racing because I dispute championships with many men, and women on the track are in the minority.
Thomas, like Melissa, has met Hamilton "tonnes of times" in and around grand prix weekends.
"We met him in the pit lane at the U.S. Grand Prix last year, he hung out with us, took selfies and we alluded to the fact that we were getting married and said 'hey you're the first invite.'
When he drives out of the garage in Australia, the world champion may be racing to end the season as No.1 but he also carries the hearts and hopes of millions.
Does Lewis Hamilton have what it takes to transcend the track and become a global sporting superstar?