But there's a slower side to this city of just less than 600,000 residents, one of cobblestone lanes, colonial mansions, art deco buildings and tranquil parks, all done in a fusion of Chinese and Portuguese motifs.
Macau is the gambling capital of the world.
There are plenty of slot machines as well, but they offer a high house advantage and aren't popular.
Today, Macau is a Special Administrative Region (SAR) -- as is Hong Kong -- and is governed under the "one country, two systems" principal, which was the brainchild of late paramount leader Deng Xiaoping.
Macau has the world's highest population density with 20,497 people per square kilometer.
This gave Macau an extra 5.2 square kilometers to create a gambling mecca to rival Las Vegas.
The most southern island, Coloane, remains wonderfully untouched by the casino craziness.
Like the rest of Coloane, it's super laid-back and the food is reliably good.
In 2005, the historic center of Macau was put on the list.
Most of the sites are open daily and free to visit.
Dishes are often baked or roasted for a long time to allow the flavors and spices to develop.
He was once Asia's most feared gangster, the leader of the 14K triads, and after 13 years behind bars he's now a free man.
Macau changed dramatically while he was in prison and the swathe of new monster casinos has totally transformed the city.
Only the residents of Monaco -- ironically another place beginning with the letter "M" that's known for its casinos -- live longer (89.6 years).
This year Macau was named the world's second fastest growing economy (after Mongolia) and more than 50% of Macau's revenue comes from gambling.
New regulations brought in early this year means that 50% of a casino floor must be non-smoking.
The massive open plan Venetian Macau -- the largest casino floor in the world -- uses a smart ventilation system that creates areas of low and high pressure to ensure that the smoke is drawn up into air vents.
The beach is a kilometer long and famous for its black sand.
Read the policy.