He remarked upon it to his wife, saying there was something different about his daughter.
Her father says when he spoke to her about coming home, she said that she would see her family on Judgment Day and would like to be a martyr.
Her recent posting online has called to follow the example set by "brothers from Woolwich, Texas, and Boston."
Aqsa is said to be influenced by watching sermons online and coming in contact with people through social media that helped her make the trek from Glasgow to Syria.
They went to the prestigious private school Craigholme down the road.
Her parents insist there were no signs that the Glasgow teenager harbored any extremist beliefs.
And when she went to her university, she gave up her music and childhood fiction.
Khalida says her daughter was afraid of the dark and didn't even know what bus to take downtown, much less how to cross the border into Syria.
I can't believe this," Khalida tearfully says, explaining the shock the family feels about her daughter's decision.
But she made one mistake, but otherwise, she is really a very good girl.
They don't let a girl stay alone.
"We used to tell her ... this is not Islam, some of these groups are not Islam.
Despite Aqsa's active role on social media, her father says he reads little of what she writes online because it hurts him.
Her mother says that Aqsa is leading a very hard life, often sleeps on the floor in the cold and has suffered from pneumonia.
Looking directly into the camera, Khalida said, "Aqsa, my dear daughter, please come back.
My dear daughter, in the name of Allah, please come back.
Both parents are quick to denounce ISIS, which also calls itself the "Islamic State," and the atrocities that are being carried out in the name of religion.
The Mahmood family says they are speaking out in the hope that their other children and the community don't face any backlash, and they publicly condemn their eldest daughter's callous decision.
But they say they are still holding hope that one day, she will come back.