Her curiosity drew her to the balcony of the family's third floor apartment in the quiet Tunis suburb of Menzah, where she found her husband's colleague standing next to his car, panic-stricken.
As the most visible leader of Tunisia's Popular Front -- a coalition of a dozen leftist political parties formed last October -- Belaid had been tasked with countering the rise of the Islamist-led Nahda party, which swept into power following the revolution that toppled longtime President Zine el Abidine Ben Ali in January 2011.
And as a result, he and his family were often the target of death threats, harassment, and on occasion, violence at the hands of his political opponents.
He used to tell me about these threats in his own way in order not to put fear in us."
The assailants, according to witnesses, had waited for Belaid to emerge from his home.
As he got into his car, a gunman approached and fired four shots which struck Belaid in the head and chest, then fled by motorcycle with the help of an accomplice driver.
Having ousted Ben Ali and having held free and fair elections, and while their Arab counterparts in Egypt, Libya, and Syria continued to struggle under the rule of dictators desperately clinging to power, Tunisia was setting the precedent for democratic transition in the modern Arab world.
He proposed handing over key ministries, such as justice and foreign affairs, to independents in an attempt to form a more inclusive government and avoid further political instability and pledged to step down if his efforts were not successful.
Few Tunisians had probably heard of Basma Khalfaoui before her husband's death, but in the last two months she has attained rock star status in her country.
"The number of people who attended the funeral and the spotlight I am put under has increased the amount of responsibility I am feeling.
Like her husband, Basma was a leader in Tunisia's student movement in the General Union of the Students of Tunisia, a group of leftist and nationalist students concerned with the rising Islamist presence on campus.
My concern is my daughters, but now I feel the amount of responsibility towards the people of Tunisia.
Later that week, Basma and thousands of supporters donning Chokri Belaid masks and carrying posters bearing Chokri's trademark mustache and mole, an image which has come to represent the revival of revolutionary fervor in Tunisia, gathered at her husband's graveside.
The day ended without incident, a stark contrast from the funeral procession for Belaid that just a few weeks earlier had ended in violent clashes between supporters of the leftist martyr and those of the ruling Nahda party.
But buried beneath the sadness and anger, Basma still clings to hope.
Now, thousands of flowers have grown in Tunisia."