"I was right behind David and the careers officer said 'So Mr. David Jones, what is it you are planning to do when you leave school?'
I laughed my head off after that because they didn't know how to pigeon hole people and they went down the category of music careers and he said 'I've got an interview for a job at a harp factory in Bromley' -- that's the nearest thing they had to music which I thought was hilarious."
When Jones wrote to the U.S. Embassy in London about his enthusiasm the two boys were invited to visit and try on the equipment, the shoulder pads seeming like an inspiration for the wardrobe of the future Ziggy Stardust.
George says David convinced him that the girl wouldn't turn up for the meeting.
"I remember the day because my father came home very agitated and told the story of one of his pupils hit the other one and there was a fight or something and I heard that Jones had to be taken to hospital but that's all I knew I didn't actually see it happen.
The incident left David with a frozen pupil, giving the effect that he has eyes of different colors, which contributed to the other-worldly look which became synonymous with the image of Bowie.
George and David played together in bands such as The Kon-rads and The King Bees but it was George who scored the first hit recording under the name Calvin James.
He was invited along on the "Ziggy Stardust" tour to America, crossing the Atlantic on the QE2 liner, where David astonished other diners by turning up for dinner in full Ziggy costume.
After achieving huge success as a solo artist -- "Frampton Comes Alive" remains one of the best-selling live albums in music history -- Peter Frampton suffered a series of setbacks which left his career in tatters, until David invited him to record and tour with him in the 1980s.
Peter went on to win a Grammy for his 2006 album "Fingerprints" while George has developed a career in painting which has included exhibitions at London's prestigious Royal Academy.
"A lot of people have copied what he has done, in terms of re-inventing himself all the time, just when you think he's got him figured out," says Frampton.