(WIRED)  -- When Microsoft and Facebook announced that they were partnering to integrate Facebook and Bing for social network-powered search, it confirmed something I thought Monday: Windows Phone 7 is the real Facebook phone.
"This is, I think, one of the most exciting partnerships we've done on the platform so far," Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg said at the Bing announcement Wednesday.
The Kin failed and was killed by Microsoft, mostly because it wasn't a full-featured smartphone (it was a fork of Windows Phone 7), but required a smartphone's data plan.
In the press release for WP7, Microsoft notes that "the customizable Start screen with Live Tiles provides real-time updates so you can keep tabs on the latest weather forecast, your favorite band, a friend's Facebook page and more, all with just one glimpse" [emphasis added].
Zuckerberg only made an offhand reference to WP7 in that interview: "If Windows Phone 7 takes off, then I'm sure we'll put resources on that."
In order to do that, Zuckerberg explained, you need to find a company that was willing to incorporate social networking from the operating system up -- not just adding a layer on top of it was already doing, but making that the focus of the device and its services.
Microsoft may be the underdog in search and phones, but it's actually been ahead of the curve in terms of incorporating social layers into its products.
Facebook is already embedded in all of them: It's built into Messenger, Hotmail and Outlook, and it's what powers part of the social dimension of Xbox Live.
And search is one of just three buttons on every WP7 phone.
If we think about Apple's attempt with Ping to bring a social layer to iTunes (which has been criticized, in part, because Apple didn't partner up with Facebook), Sony's idea of a multitasking television set or Twitter's plays to get on the television screen with Google TV, it's clear that that's where we're heading.
When it comes to social networking and smart partnering with other companies -- including each other -- the two giants are way ahead of the field.