That's because the 2010 installment in Angola was overshadowed by a machine gun attack on the Togo team bus that left three people dead and organizers -- the Confederation of African Football (CAF) -- having to defend the decision to stage it there.
The fact they were chosen underlines the Confederation of African Football (CAF) policy to use the tournament as an investment tool, hoping to drive tourism and business long after the soccer extravaganza has gone.
But there is pressure on them to deliver a successful and safe Cup of Nations after 2010's pre-tournament tragedy in Angola -- which had only recently emerged from a civil war lasting three decades.
According to African football expert Mark Gleeson, who has been to every tournament since 1992, CAF's decision to take the tournament to new territories has had mixed success.
"But if the football kicks off at the appointed time, the TV cameras are in place and the whistle is blown, it doesn't matter whether the accreditation machine broke down five hours before.
Suleiman said security arrangements are the responsibility of the host nations, not the ruling body.
Gabon spent an estimated $500 million on stadiums and infrastructure despite them being tiny in comparison to hosts of other major tournaments, like China, who spent an estimated $42 billion on the 2008 Olympics.
Dowe also insisted there would be enough hotel rooms to accommodate the 80,000 expected visitors, as well as the many journalists descending on the competition, while the four stadiums that are hosting matches across the two countries are open and ready for kick-off.
With each new edition of the competition, the AFCON has become a factor of economic development in terms of structures and infrastructures.
The biennial competition is contested by 16 teams split into four groups.
Saturday's opening Group A matches will be in Equatorial Guinea's former capital Bata, while other games will be held in Malabo -- its 1969 successor.
The rise of African football in recent years means some of the world's biggest soccer stars will be on show, such as the Ivory Coast's Chelsea striker Didier Drogba and Manchester City midfielder Yaya Toure, as well as Mali's Seydou Keita, who plays for European and Spanish champions Barcelona.