In the latest redemptive twist of a career of political and personal ups and downs, the Arizona Republican senator will take on one of the most weighty jobs in Congress when the new Republican majority rolls into town next month.
He has a chance to reshape his own legacy, and ensure that the last word on his political career is not two losing presidential campaigns and his pick of running mate Sarah Palin, who critics blasted as unqualified to be a heartbeat away from the presidency.
Republicans are also expected to use funding bills for government departments to constrain administration foreign policy in some areas and to target it in others, in effect daring Obama to veto wider bills that include elements he might oppose.
The President has ignored McCain's calls for the United States to align much more closely with moderate rebels in the cauldron of Syria's civil war.
"Countries no longer believe in American leadership, so therefore, they are making their own accommodations, not only in the Middle East but also in what used to be eastern Europe," he said.
At times, McCain's moral outrage over Syria or Ukraine seems to burst out of him and contrasts with the cold-eyed realism of a President who believes he was elected to end wars, not to get into new quagmires.
In recent months, McCain's fury has spilled out in committee hearing showdowns with top officials including Secretary of State John Kerry and his new deputy, Tony Blinken.
People who know McCain are not at all shocked he's still trading punches and not walking off into the Arizona sunset after a lifetime of service.
He has always been someone to run to the sound of the guns, and be in the arena where important decisions are being made," said Richard Fontaine, who worked for McCain for five years as a foreign policy adviser.
"His book 'Character is Destiny' is all about how character determines a person and determines events.
That streak of idealism underpins some of McCain's most admired political achievements -- for example his role in normalizing diplomatic relations with Vietnam, which required an embrace of a nation which incarcerated him.
I didn't think I would ever see you again."
McCain's intervention was a reminder that for all his talk of history ultimately only crediting winners, he may be remembered as much for how he fought for his beliefs as what he achieved.