But another debate on immigration will refocus on internal GOP splits and raise questions about whether the party is taking any of its own advice about being more open to Hispanics.
Because most House Republican districts are solidly red, most of the party's rank and file feared primary challenges from the right.
Right before leaving town for the August recess, the House passed a bill that would prevent the President from renewing deportation deferments — or granting new ones -- for the roughly 600,000 young people brought into the country illegally by undocumented immigrant parents.
With media present covering Paul, a woman claiming that she would be deported if the measure became law confronted King about the legislation.
But Democrats have pounced on King's Iowa dust-up as well as others trying to paint the GOP as more extreme on immigration.
He agreed that Congress needed to work with the White House and Democrats to pass narrow legislation to deal with the issues that caused the surge of immigrants and provide resources to handle the tens of thousands who already arrived.
As part of a deal to pass a $694 million border funding bill, Boehner and his top lieutenants agreed to allow a separate vote on a measure promoted by House conservatives that went even further than Cruz's proposal.
Last spring, the Republican National Committee issued a report that examined its 2012 loss and called for the GOP to address immigration reform.
The episode is also sure to raise doubts among swing voters about whether Republicans would be prepared to govern if they do win control of the entire Congress," the Journal said.
Even if Republicans can't enact immigration reform in a divided Congress, others advise  it has to look like it is at least trying to do something.
Presenting a bill to Obama would put the onus on him to respond and make him the subject of blame if he rejected it.
There are only a handful of House Republicans in competitive races in districts with significant Latino populations.
The GOP is well positioned to win control of the Senate in November, and immigration is expected to be a factor in just one key contest in Colorado, where there is a sizable number of Hispanic voters.