(CNN) -- An attempted breakout by Muslim Brotherhood prisoners left at least 36 dead Sunday as Egypt's military chief urged supporters of ousted President Mohamed Morsy to quit resisting the new government.
The Freedom and Justice Party, the Brotherhood's political arm, put the number of dead at 52 and demanded an international investigation into the deaths.
An earlier report by the state-run news agency EGYNews said a group of armed men attempted to free the prisoners.
The government also announced a ban against "popular committees," the neighborhood watch groups that have battled protesters in recent days.
Al-Sisi and other government leaders were "trying to beautify the ugly face of this bloody coup," he said.
On Saturday, Egyptian security forces arrested more than 350 people at a mosque where throngs of Morsy supporters were hiding, including a handful from outside Egypt -- three Irish citizens, one Turkish and one Syrian, the Egyptian Interior Ministry said.
Mohamed al-Zawahiri and another Islamist leader, Mustafa Hamza, were ordered held for up to 15 days for investigation on charges of joining an organization that seeks to disrupt the social peace and national unity in the country, the state-run news service EGYNews reported.
The new government urged the global community to listen to its side Sunday, accusing international media of being sympathetic to Morsy and the Muslim Brotherhood.
He said the interim government is "trying to identify the political identity so we can move forward."
U.S. law bars support of a government that has taken power by extraconstitutional means, but the administration has said it won't make a formal determination as to whether Morsy's ouster was a coup.
Sen. Jack Reed, a leading Democrat on the Senate Armed Services Committee, told NBC's "Meet the Press" that the the clampdown is "completely unconscionable."
Members of the European Union announced Sunday that the body will "urgently review in the coming days its relations with Egypt and adopt measures" aimed at ending violence, resuming political dialogue and returning to a democratic process.
CNN's Saad Abedine, Schams Elwazer, Ali Younes, Hamdi Alkhshali, Holly Yan, Ian Lee and Joseph Netto contributed to this report.