Teams of seven Marines carried the caskets off a C-17 plane at Joint Base Andrews in Maryland in a ceremony attended by a color guard and a chaplain, Army Col. Wesley Smith.
"Four Americans, four patriots, they loved their country and chose to serve it and serve it well," the president continued.
Those countries' leaders "need to do everything they can to restore security" in the face of anti-American protests arising from an "awful Internet video," she said.
We owe it to the these four men to continue the long, hard work of diplomacy," Clinton said.
The head of Libya's ruling General National Congress, Mohammed Al-Megaryef, also confirmed the four arrests but declined to say to what group the suspects are linked.
However, the government now believes the suspects are part of one of the many armed extremist groups operating especially in the eastern part of the country and Benghazi itself, he told CNN.
State Department Under Secretary Patrick Kennedy has said that the attack appeared to be planned because it was so extensive and because of the "proliferation" of small and medium weapons at the scene.
No act of violence shakes the resolve of the United States of America."
"The evidence itself is based on mostly pictures that were taken around the compound at that time, and also through some witnesses," the prime minister said.
Meanwhile, Shawn Turner, director of communications for U.S. National Intelligence, denied news reports that American officials had been warned of a possible attack.
The United States is deploying warships and surveillance drones in its hunt for the killers of the diplomatic staffers, and a contingent of 50 Marines has arrived to boost the security of Americans in the country.
A senior defense official told CNN the drones will be part of "a stepped-up, more focused search" for a particular insurgent cell that may be behind the killings.
There are numerous questions about what happened at the consulate where protesters had gathered to demonstrate against the film "Innocence of Muslims," which reportedly was made in California by a filmmaker whose identity is unclear.
The State Department has not released details about how Stevens died, though numerous media reports have said the ambassador was taken from the consulate to the Benghazi Medical Center by locals.
Stevens' body was turned over to consulate personnel as they were evacuated from Benghazi.