It took nearly a week to stem the spill, which sent millions of gallons of sludge from a retired power plant into a river that supplies drinking water to communities in North Carolina and neighboring Virginia.
They fear the consequences for wildlife and say that the situation shows state regulators haven't done enough to crack down on Duke Energy.
On Saturday, six days later, the company said it had plugged the broken pipe that was causing the spill and was working with officials on developing a cleanup plan.
It's unclear what that could mean for wildlife in the area, said Jamie Kritzer, a spokesman for the North Carolina Department of Environment and Natural Resources.
"This is another shameless attempt by (environmental officials)  to downplay the risks facing the communities along the Dan River downstream," Peter Harrison of the Waterkeeper Alliance advocacy group said in a written statement to CNN on Friday.
"The Dan River is a gem, and people value it throughout the state for not only being a source of drinking water, but also for its aquatic life that it provides a home to and all the recreational uses.
"I stood on the bank a day or two after the spill, and I can say that I openly cried," she said.
"The longer it's allowed to sit there ...t he sediment that has not gone down the river will be constantly churned up as it goes downstream, and the longer that we wait, obviously the more damage can occur," she said.
We've been testing water quality since the leak occurred and will continue to do so," she said.
The state filed lawsuits against Duke Energy last year, asking the court to order the utility to deal with groundwater and wastewater violations at 14 sites where the byproducts of coal power plants are stored, according to a statement from Gov.
Before he ran for governor, McCrory worked for Duke Energy for nearly three decades, and critics have claimed he's shied away from regulation during his time in public office due to his close ties with the utility.
Environmental advocates say the spill is a reminder of a troubling problem that's widespread in the state: coal ash ponds storing large amounts of waste close to drinking water supplies.
That amount of ash, the company said, would fill up to 32 Olympic-size swimming pools.