Masters was convicted of murder in 1999, but a judge last year threw out the conviction and released him from prison, citing new evidence that did not implicate Masters.
He said he still holds a grudge against the police and prosecutors who put him behind bars.
Most notably, he's traveled to Amsterdam, Netherlands, to appear on a talk show with Richard and Selma Eikelenboom, the Dutch forensic scientists who discovered the DNA evidence that ultimately freed Masters.
Watch Masters thank those last year who worked to free him »
Masters: The big challenge is, first of all, you've got to find out where the auctions are.
I try and buy it cheap enough that I can make a profit on it, load it into the truck, bring it back to the house.
If it doesn't sell, you can either re-list it as an auction item, re-list it as a store item or throw it in the trash.
I've been to see my sister about four times since I've been out.
I go through his warehouse, take pictures of all the new stuff he's got in and I list it on eBay for him.
Watch a prosecutor explain why Masters' conviction was reversed »
What do you think you missed most by not being a free man in those years?
It goes all the way back to my high school days when they labeled me a murder suspect among all my peers and my teachers and everything.
CNN: You said last year that you were staying away from alcohol because you were uncertain what emotions it might stir up.
Masters: Yeah, that went to hell when I went to Europe.
I have a lot of repressed anger from all those years, but I don't think it's going to snap on anybody when I have a couple of beers though.
Masters: Mainly, [former prosecutors, now Judges] Jolene Blair and Terri Gilmore and [Fort Collins police Lt.] Jim Broderick, but there are a few other defendants involved and the city, but in my mind those are the big three.
It's a damned shame that [the police] did this to them, too, telling them they got the guy when they didn't have the right person.
One day, my aunt and I were coming back from having lunch, and we were about to make a left and the road kept going straight.
On the other side of the street, they had the yellow police tape up, and this is only two blocks from my aunt's house.
They did it to me before.