For days, Crockett lay in darkness and a tangle of sweaty hospital bed sheets, one among hundreds of desperate patients trapped inside Charity Hospital in 2005, while outside, Hurricane Katrina and its aftermath battered the city.
Crockett, and many other New Orleanians suffering from chronic mental illness -- and those with what is called "soft depression," or nonchronic mental illness -- say Katrina may have relented days after it hit New Orleans proper, but their mental health issues have not.
A report about mental health issues in New Orleans after Katrina, published in early 2008 in the journal Psychiatric Annals, lists the number of inpatient psychiatric beds in greater New Orleans at 487 before the storm.
I can't use enough bad words to describe it," said Johnson, who is an associate professor of clinical psychiatry at the Tulane University School of Medicine.
After leaving the clinic, Crockett bounced among three local hospitals before being transported to the closest medical center with an available psychiatric bed, several hours outside of New Orleans.
I just remember seeing the sky turn from daytime to nighttime, and we still hadn't gotten there."
A struggle ensued, and Johnson overpowered and killed Cotton with her own gun, police said.
Cotton's death trained a spotlight on the deplorable condition of the New Orleans mental health system -- for a moment -- said Rep. Neil Abramson of the Louisiana House of Representatives.
Safety of law enforcement personnel, more psychotic patients out on the street, and more killings instead of people getting the treatment they need."
"This is the only state-operated mental health facility left in New Orleans.
Levine called the debate about NOAH and inpatient beds among New Orleans caregivers and legislators symbolic of overall frustration with mental health care in the area, adding that Louisiana is focusing funding on community-based services, rather than inpatient beds, a strategy that he says will eventually shore up New Orleans' mental health system.
"It's part of the answer, but it in no way can really take the place of hospital beds that we need," she said.
"We are people battling an illness, and we don't need to also have to be faced with not having the availability of beds and hospitals and doctors.