That consensus was reached during a day of meetings by the "Friends of Syria" in the cradle of the Arab Spring, where participants laid out the groundwork for a political transition in Syria, not unlike the international planning that preceded the changes in Libya, where Moammar Gadhafi's regime was toppled last year.
As the conference unfolded, Red Crescent volunteer rescue crews evacuated seven wounded people in the besieged Syrian city of Homs to Al Amin Hospital on the outskirts of the city's Baba Amr neighborhood, a spokeswoman for the International Committee of the Red Cross said.
The state-run Syrian Arab News Agency (SANA), citing an official source at the Foreign Ministry, said Red Crescent vehicles were dispatched Friday, "for humanitarian considerations, to retrieve the foreign journalists who entered Syria illegally.
The dead include 18 corpses found in the Hama province town of Khatab and 30 people in Homs, the epicenter of resistance that has endured 21 days of daily shelling, according to the Local Coordination Committees of Syria, a network of opposition groups.
A guest implied that some of the countries in attendance had been paid, bribed or ordered to show up against their will.
"Assad can still make the choice to end the violence, save lives and spare his country from descending further into ruin but, if he continues to reject that choice, we and the Syrian people will keep pressure on him until his deadly regime cracks and collapses, because it will," she said.
"Their refusal to continue this slaughter will make them heroes in the eyes of not only Syrians, but people of conscience everywhere.
But Saudi Arabian Foreign Minister Prince Saud al-Faisal said that arming the Syrian opposition is an "excellent idea."
"We are going to continue to keep the pressure up and look for every tool available to prevent the slaughter of innocents in Syria," he said.
The Friends of Syria group stressed that an alternative to al-Assad exists and it believes it can persuade traditional regime supporters, such as business elites, the military and minority Alawites -- who prevail in the military -- to switch allegiances.
A free people was born in Syria and it does not fear death, nor does it accept any bargain to give away its long-deprived rights or give up its sovereignty by any definition."
The diplomat said the conference communique will endorse the Arab League's request to the Security Council to form a joint Arab-U.N. peacekeeping force after the cessation of violence.