CNN spoke with "The Walking Dead" showrunner Glen Mazzara about the themes and motivations prevalent in season three, what to expect in the second half and the joys of writing while listening to Prince.
We've really found a nice balance having those quiet, heartfelt scenes, mixed with moments of pure terror and action.
That's something that our audience responds to: that our characters are always on the knife's edge.
CNN: Speaking of the knife's edge, Michonne and The Governor were two highly anticipated characters at the start of this season.
David Morrissey is an incredibly talented actor who is just interested in finding new layers and nuance to this character.
I've learned a lot about acting from just watching his work.
Mazzara: Part of the experience of watching "The Walking Dead" is that you're leaning in; anything is possible.
CNN: Episode eight also saw the introduction of another new character, Tyreese (Chad Coleman), who's probably best known for his role on "The Wire."
He's just having a great time and is excited about being a part of the show.
I'd say in the conversation that I've had with the actors -- it's very interesting to see themselves as a part of that group and everyone else is a threat or the other.
The actors come in, and I guess it's the way that they are directed or it's written.
You could see that there's a lot of work that the actors do on their own characters, and we as writers listen and incorporate those dynamics into the scripts.
Pay close attention to the language The Governor is using when he refers to Rick and his group and also in the back half of the season, how Rick and his group refer to Woodbury.
The audience knows that Rick and his group are a bunch of good-hearted survivors, but yet it's very possible for The Governor to portray them as blood-thirsty murderers to the people of Woodbury because that's what they were.
CNN: Correct me if I'm wrong, but I believe your Twitter (account) said you were writing the final episode of season three while listening to Prince.
CNN: I love the idea that you can get into the head space of writing a very dark episode, and something like "Let's Go Crazy" is on in the background at some point.
I don't know if it was ever officially released, but he has a song called "The Undertaker" that's really great to write to.