(CNN) -- William Fox-Pitt sounds rather like a character straight out of the pages of a novel and, at times, his life has played out like one.
"If I'd won gold at London 2012, it might have been different," Fox-Pitt, who won team silver at his home Games, adding to the bronze he won in Beijing four years earlier and another silver secured in Athens in 2004, tells CNN.
"In the front of your mind, there's that sense you could have a prang and end up in a mess.
Competing at the prestigious annual Badminton event in the UK, his mount Briarlands Pippin lost a shoe just before a fence, slipped, flipped over at the fence and had to be put down because of a broken neck.
This is not the rider nor family man brushing off the obvious repercussions of a fall, but rather the elite athlete in him knowing that he cannot spend too much time dwelling on the what ifs of his sport.
"I think there has to be an element of risk, otherwise no one would want to do it," he explains.
The Briton, who was educated at Eton, where Princes William and Harry and British Prime Minister David Cameron among others attended, is bemused as to how he has made it to the pinnacle of his sport.
"When she arrived, no one could quite believe it was happening and there is something about her that's quite extraordinary, but it was also all very normal, she was very normal.
Similarly in the past is Fox-Pitt's previous life with Wiggy, his first wife, who left him for Nicholson, the New Zealand horseman who is currently ranked second in the world.
"I can see people like to make a lot of the rivalry and that's good for the sport.
There is his indomitable mother, Marietta, who spurred him on to ride and would not accept his occasional decisions to quit.
There are the contradicting aspects of him -- that he is part of the bloodline of William Pitt, British Prime Minister in the 18th Century, which contrast to the black eye he sported after sumo wrestling at his bachelor party, prior to his second marriage to the television presenter Alice Plunkett.
"I could do without the sick feeling in my stomach before a big event but I'm not done yet.