Hottle grew up going to the national parks on family vacations, exploring parks in New Mexico, Colorado and the rest of the Southwest.
Hottle had worked as an enlisted public affairs specialist in the military and had run his own video production business after being discharged.
Hottle is one of many military veterans who have worked for the National Park Service and at Yellowstone, the nation's first national park, established in 1872.
"We've seen the most brutal acts of nature happen in our front yard.
They think it's cruel and inhumane for some of the natural processes to occur.
Park stats: Yellowstone National Park was the fourth-most-visited national park (PDF) in 2012, with 3.4 million visitors last year.
While Old Faithful Geyser is the big draw for first-time visitors to Yellowstone, it can take the whole day to enjoy and get around the geyser basin where it's located.
Hottle likes to send people about 25 miles away to Canyon Village, which features the Grand Canyon of the Yellowstone.
If you're going to see any animal, you're going to see it in the middle of the park."
It's in the northeast corner of the park, just outside Lamar Valley and near Cooke City, Montana.
Early in the morning or later in the evening, when he's driving the only car on the road, Hottle likes to stop at a pullout about halfway to Lamar Valley, where he can sometimes hear wolves howling.
As the sun was setting, "I sat down on a rock to look at the water, heard a snorting noise and saw a five-point bull elk swim out into the water in front of me," he said.
Funniest moment at the park: Moments after he spotted that bull elk, a tourist asked him, "Where's the wildlife?"
Every day, people come up to him and ask him that question, and "behind them are 30 elk" or other wild animals, he says.
"I don't take my eyes off the cars passing me for a second, and everyone is in their cars with their heads turned sideways."
Even though it's next door in Montana, it's a nine-hour drive for Hottle and his family to get there.
"You can step off the road and walk five minutes into the woods and be completely lost.
Please share your thoughts in the comments section below.