The stench makes it hard to breathe, and it's harder to fathom how any human being could live in these conditions.
With a disheveled shirt and shorts covered in dry gray sludge, Fernando Miranda smiles and points towards the fence, signaling the location of the place he once called home.
Miranda was born in Mexico, and 25 years ago he illegally immigrated to the United States, the country where he worked and prospered, where his children were born, educated and given better opportunities.
Most of those deported have no connection to Tijuana, no family or friends, and some can barely speak the language.
Valdez has been wandering the unfamiliar streets of this foreign city for days, unable to find food, a job or a place to sleep.
He couldn't express in words what had happened to him: In the space of one week, he had gone from American resident to citizen of no-man's land.
Shoestrings and pieces of clothes keep the wooden sticks and plywood together.
Miranda doesn't care to stay in Mexico, and he quickly learned that Mexico didn't care for him to stay, either.
The deportees have to hide underground to evade local authorities, and for them this is the safest place in Tijuana.
Instead of having laws that protect us, they make life even harder for us.
Unwanted by the United States and Mexico, this is the place where thousands have found refuge while they save up enough money to cross back into the United States.
He says the local government offers little to no help to the new arrivals, and so he and other activists try to help with food and shelter.
"When you get here, you come with nothing, so you probably spent four or five days in detention.
You can't walk through El Bordo without seeing the open usage of heroin, the dirty needles stuck behind ears like pencils and, more horrifying, others sharing them on the filthy concrete.
As we talked, Marquez's eyes started to lose focus, his words beginning to melt into each other.
In Washington, the issue of how to deal with 11 million undocumented immigrants is at the core of the immigration debate.
Unfortunately, Miranda's return to the United States will probably be made via some form of an illegal entry, just like the first time he crossed over from Mexico 25 years ago.
The situation here is no good."