A year ago, he infused a celestial oil painting with hues of purplish red -- symbolizing blood -- after he gazed outward and for a moment the verdant landscape turned to black.
They were a troubled nation's legacy, a key source of economic trade with the rest of the world -- and undeniable symbols of hope.
"There is no art museum run by the government of Haiti," said Georges Nader Jr., who runs a gallery near the Nader museum opened by his father.
But with few functioning institutions, few outlets of expression, Haiti's brightly colored depictions -- some laced with spiritual traditions of voodoo culture -- of sun and sea, people and animals serve as memory for a country that has suffered under dictatorships and failed governments and is today the poorest in the Americas.
Scully said efforts are under way to enlist conservationists to help Haiti, and a flurry of e-mails shared by collectors, curators, gallery owners and other interested parties show the urgency people are feeling to support the arts community.
An earthquake in colonial times, fires and hurricanes, as wells as riots, revolutions and government-mandated raids of voodoo temples, destroyed much of the creativity that pre-dated the 1940s artistic boom.
In Port-au-Prince, Nader has been frantically trying to rescue the thousands of pieces his father lovingly collected over four decades.
Some of the artworks housed in the Centre d'Arts, which was in a wooden structure, will be more repairable, he said.
On the day of the quake, Nader's 79-year-old parents were in their bedroom on the top floor of the building that houses the museum.
But since then, he has been going back to the rubble every day to salvage what he can.
On the second floor of his gallery, he and his staff have been collecting damaged pieces, their vibrant colors dulled by the dust.
Kent Shankle, the curator for Iowa's Waterloo Center for the Arts, which houses the largest public collection of Haitian art in the United States, said he hopes there is a silver lining to the tragedy.
Now, he said, he will paint people screaming, piles of bodies and tents blanketing the city's open spaces.
He will rely on the lush, undulating landscape before him.
CNN's Jessica Ravitz reported from Atlanta, Georgia.