That's when his reign as Cory Matthews, the lovable goofball lead on the seminal Nineties sitcom "Boy Meets World," came to an end.
Titled "Girl Meets World," the spinoff series, which is set to begin shooting in February and will air on the Disney Channel, stars both Savage and Danielle Fishel (as his wife, Topanga Lawrence) and follows the couple's experience raising a 13-year-old daughter.
What has life been like since the Girl Meets World announcement?
I'll say it was exciting and flattering that people are still so excited about the show after all this time.
Savage: I mean, I knew it was a highly-regarded show, and I know it holds a special place in people's hearts after all this time.
RS: Apparently it was a big part of Snooki's and Brooklyn Decker's, as well.
The funny thing is, back then -- and it sounds like I'm talking about some prehistoric age -- it was not long ago we didn't have as much options of cable television and Internet.
And it's very nice that people think of us that way.
Everyone was just kind of having a blast.
I think people can really appreciate a show with a good message, but one that does that with some humor.
This was really the first time where it had sort of been mentioned in an official way.
But the build-up to this Girl Meets World series, there was a lot of discussions and a lot of conversations to make sure we were all on the same page about what we were doing.
I think it was just a matter of making sure all of us were on the same page about what we were going to do in terms of making the show last another seven years, hopefully.
Listen, the people that are doing the show -- Michael Jacobs is the executive producer -- they know what we're about, and they know what we're looking for.
RS: A lot of people are wondering if other original cast members, such as Rider Strong's Shawn or Bill Daniels' Mr. Feeny, will be back in the mix.
I'm not sure when he stopped being on the show.
It's funny, a lot of the tweets and emails and mentions I've gotten are from a lot of people who are worried that the show wont' hold up.
But we're really working hard and doing everything we can to make sure that this is going to be something special and funny, and hopefully it'll make new memories for a new generation.
In real life I've just been an uncle up to this point.
RS: No babies waking you up in the middle of the night.
We're meeting with girls and auditioning and that whole process.
I'll just say, again, going back to our favorite word, it's always very flattering when people recognize me.