Once the illness settles in, even the most soothing scenery whizzing past a car window will be no match for the symptoms: nausea, sweating, racing heart and difficulty breathing.
Gupta: The inner ear is probably the biggest culprit, mainly because you literally have these bones in the inner ear and these fluid-filled canals that detect your motion, and they are constantly giving you feedback right to your brain stem about what your position in space is.
[When I rode] with the Blue Angels, I was talking to some of the pilots ahead of time, because I know that I'm pretty prone to motion sickness.
But some of the pilots I was talking to said they never -- and these are Naval pilots they go on boats and they fly planes: two things that you could really be subjected to it -- and they said that they've never been motion sick, which I thought was kind of interesting.
There have been some studies that have shown that genetics play a role so that if your mother gets motion sick, you're more likely to, but ... there's a pretty weak association, genetically.
And it is all those things: I get sweaty, I feel really sick to my stomach, I feel like I'm going to throw up, I can't think straight, I can't even talk on the phone at that time because any kind of stimulus just really throws me off.
But you get a lot of starting and stopping and that can make it a lot worse.
Sometimes I will eat something that's calming on my stomach beforehand so I at least don't get the nausea associated with it.
Gupta: I do that because you're able to look at those things moving around you, you have much more window space, you're able to have a sense of what the driver's doing.
If you're sitting in the backseat and all of the sudden the driver hits the brakes, you get that queasy feeling in your stomach because your brain wasn't expecting that.
The Blue Angels, coincidentally, told me the best therapy for me, was to just throw up.
Histamine will cause you to release acid into your stomach, it will cause your skin to turn red, it feels like an allergic reaction.
But they do the same thing, they sort of quiet your stomach, quiet some of the symptoms associated with motion sickness but they don't really take care of the cause of it in the first place.
Point out the beautiful scenery outside because it's moving with you, so that's a good thing.
And get the kids and elderly people in particular out of the car as much as possible.