After 13 years of teaching high-level math, she has a tested stable of learning methods that helped all her students pass the AP calculus exam.
"I really thought I was going to be that teacher, 65 years old and retiring from the education field.
Two years ago, a divorce left 47-year-old DeRegnaucourt with a single income.
Teacher salaries can't compete with other careers, the report said, and annual teacher turnover in the United States is 14%.
Her colleagues have waited until just before school starts to learn what courses they'll be teaching, she said.
They have the potential to be doctors, lawyers, nurses, CEOs and scientists .
DeRegnaucourt: When my son was 6 years old, the school system that he was in in Georgia, it did not allow the teacher to take her planning days unless she could find a volunteer sub.
Then I read an article in the paper, and it said that (most) boys get the same educations as their mothers.
I knew that math was an area where I would never, ever worry about getting a job as a teacher.
You can't be good at math unless you are present to learn it.
When I went back to school, my first math class was pre-pre-college math ... you didn't even get a grade for it, you just got pass or fail.
The way she made it so elemental, and gave me that strong base to go ahead and succeed.
What I have found is most people aren't awful at math, even if math is not your strength.
The majority of the really, really amazing techniques I have came from students.
He came up to me, "Ms. D, we're just learning and learning and learning.
Every day, except on test days, my kids go to the board (to work math problems in front of each other).
As educators, we make what we make, nothing more, nothing less.
There are other things I could do.
What's really amazing is that nurses, with a two-year degree, make $20,000 more than I do.
He wanted to confirm again I would be there next year.
They know what it's like to have a teacher who doesn't know what they're doing.
DeRegnaucourt: Kids come into my classroom, and everyone thinks they're all math geeks.