I'd been on Twitter for over a year, but it was only in the past few months that I'd gotten into it as a daily part of my routine.
But many of my closest friends are on the East Coast or in Europe, so by the time I get my kids in bed, it's too late to call.
Online conversation can be a great boon to your friendships, but only if you organize your online socializing around the kinds of relationships -- and that specific people -- that matter to you.
In my enthusiasm for the shiny novelty of Twitter, I'd forgotten all about Facebook -- but went back to checking Facebook regularly when I realized that's where my closest pals hung out.
Focusing my phone time on my oldest and dearest friend means that when we talk, we can actually have a meaningful conversation about the latest chapter in our lives, rather than using an hour to catch up on news highlights.
The fastest way to erode your commitment to the relationships that matter to you is to confuse that long list of buddies you have on Facebook, Twitter or LinkedIn with actual people you know and love.
Ironically, this contributed to our decision to stay put: Once we focused our time and attention on the people we saw as lifelong friends, our social life became much more meaningful and satisfying.
As we compared notes on our jobs, kids and sex lives (like I said, close friends), I found myself looking wistfully at the table next to hours, where four women made up a "Sex and the City" quartet huddled in an intimate conversation.
For those times when you know what kind of social life you want, but budget, time or logistics make it impossible, the Web can be a great pinch hitter.
If these tips sound like they're more about emotional intelligence than tech know-how, you're catching on.
The secret to a satisfying social life online doesn't lie in which network you join or how cool your profile page looks -- it's about using social networks to reflect and amplify the way you connect with your friends.
TM & © 2011 Harpo Productions, Inc. All Rights Reserved.