Washington (CNN) -- Attorney General Eric Holder made clear Thursday that the Obama administration recognizes the authority of federal courts, including the Supreme Court, to rule on whether the 2010 health care reform law or any other laws passed by Congress are constitutional.
"The power of the courts to review the constitutionality of legislation is beyond dispute," Holder said.
The outcome of the health care cases in an election year could have a lasting impact on Obama's re-election chances as well as the credibility of the federal courts, which are supposed to be beyond politics.
"That has troubled a number of people who have read it as somehow a challenge to the federal courts or to their authority or to the appropriateness of the concept of judicial review," Smith continued.
He said the Justice Department "has not in this litigation, nor in any other litigation of which I am aware, ever asked this or any other court to reconsider or limit long-established precedent concerning judicial review of the constitutionality of federal legislation."
"First, Holder (in the letter) says that we have an argument courts can't hear this case.
The last part of Holder's letter "is how they are framing the president's point -- that the courts need to give the elected branches deference," Goldstein added.
"The point I was making is that the Supreme Court is the final say on our Constitution and our laws, and all of us have to respect it, but it's precisely because of that extraordinary power that the court has traditionally exercised significant restraint and deference to our duly elected legislature, our Congress," Obama said.
The fact that this president does not appear to feel similarly constrained to respect their independence doesn't change that one bit.
"It is kind of ridiculous to believe that the president wasn't talking about the context of the (health care) case, but I completely concede that he did not describe the context when he took the question and answered it on Monday," Carney said.
Their written opinions, due in the next three months, will be the final word on the Affordable Care Act's constitutionality, particularly the "individual mandate" provision that requires most Americans to have health insurance by 2014 or face a financial penalty.
CNN's Brian Todd, Dugald McConnell and Tom Cohen contributed to this report.