Many of the questions were too long to duplicate here, so we included excerpts and a link to the full comments.
As long as he is the only one, he has a good chance that an idle doctor stumbles upon his files.
If you, tomorrow, have to go through cancer, you will be able to benefit from all this work already done, with contacts, different strategies combined in critical, harmonious ways, documented testimonies, ways to access the various services etc.
What I am also asking is to go beyond the idea of eHealth, and to not limit this whole thing to an "administrative" or, even worse, "bureaucratic" process, because this is really harmful to people, both the "diseased" ones and the rest of the members of society.
Hospitals and infrastructures are not very good, but doctors are really excellent and many things are really covered by the national health system.
This is another thing we're confronting -- also trying to imagine ways to help people (including me) to integrate in the "cure" the possibility to raise money to actually perform it.
And this is just one example of the ways in which this kind of process has been really helpful and productive.
I'm thinking the specialist who gave him his results and options knew the very best that medicine could offer for what he has.
To do this, I explicitly ask people (doctors, researchers, regular people... ) who contribute, to compare their approaches, also critically, and to try to understand how and if they should/could be combined, and to what extent.
Also because everyone involved will dedicate energies to make sure that they keep you informed and in the loop, making sure that you are actually able to understand what they're talking about, the implications and side effects, the dangers and problems.
Kropotkin:  I wish him the best, but it's dangerous to think that because you have access to a wealth of information on a particular subject, you are an expert at interpreting and applying the information.
And, in fact, I feel that I "have become an expert," but through the possibility of accessing the knowledge and competences of people who have expertise on this subject, from a variety of points of view, and also by asking them, if they can, to speak, and confront, and compare, and criticize.
And they trust each other, as well.
(They are) also helping out to understand the best ways in which collaboration of this kind can take place with the least amount of possible risk, by filtering out useless and dangerous nonsense, and by working together to understand how to combine techniques and how to really *care* about the human being, in the process, by taking into account their lifestyle, their creativity, their engagement.
And most of the time they are inaccessible to you, either economically, technically, or even because you don't know about them.
Cancer, like many complex things of our time, is not something for which a "truth" exists.
On the contrary: I wish to use every possible, positive, useful technique, as a combination.