"The distillery was built here almost 100 years ago for the legendary water," says Makoto Sumita, who's been with Suntory for 20 years, as we walk past a pond to the tasting room.
These days, it's used to make some of the most remarkable whiskeys on the planet.
For most drinkers, the draw of Japanese whiskey isn't just that its smoother, complex taste belies its years -- it's the allure of being let in on something rare and refined.
The 21st-century ascendancy of Japanese whiskies recalls the Judgment of Paris, the 1976 blind-tasting wine competition in which California wines were rated the best in every category for the first time, sending shock waves throughout the Francophile wine world.
At the International Spirit Challenge 2013 held in the UK, Suntory was named "Distiller of the Year" for the third time and its blended Hibiki 21 Years Old won the Trophy prize, the highest award in the competition's World Whiskeys category.
Though in terms of global sales Japanese whiskies amount to barely a drop in the glass -- none are among the world's ten best selling brands -- Japan's top distillers have seen a steady increase in production and exports since at least 2006, with Suntory expecting to double its overseas exports by 2016.
Suntory is the reigning king to Nikka's scrappy underdog, but Nikka holds its own on the battlefield.
After 10 years with Suntory, Taketsuru left to build his own whiskey empire in Yoichi, Hokkaido, in a climate he preferred for its similarities to Scotland.
Unlike the bastions of Scotland's finest, the Yamazaki distillery is one of the few in the world that can produce a variety of whiskeys from the same distillery, thanks to the different shapes and sizes of the distillery's pot stills.
The tour finishes at the beautifully rendered whiskey library, bar and gift shop where visitors can purchase varieties sold only on site -- including extremely rare single cask whiskeys -- in addition to the usual Suntory offerings.
The Nikka headquarters are as different from Suntory's as a building can be -- a stone castle, with its own European-style insignia carved into the entrance.
While a Nikka whiskey may be closer to Scotch than say, a Yamazaki, Japanese whiskeys are still much sweeter and more fragrant than their overseas counterparts, with even the most peaty varieties still balanced.
The highlight of the tour is the airy, open tasting room, where each visitor is given three samples of Nikka's most popular whiskeys.
Nikka Yoichi Distillery, 7-6 Kurokawacho, Yoichimachi, Yoichigun, Hokkaido, Japan; +81 135 23 3131; 9 a.m.-5 p.m.; closed Christmas and New Year's holiday; free guided tours in Japanese, visitors can do a self-guided tour with free English maps.