In a poetic twist, Circuit Court Judge John C. Hayes III, who will preside over the hearing, is the nephew of the judge who originally sentenced these largely unsung civil rights heroes.
Martin Luther King Jr. when asked why he was motivated to take up the cause of the Friendship Nine: "The arc of the moral universe is long, but it bends towards justice."
Rather than pay the $100 for their release, the men felt they could make a more profound statement by accepting the full punishment for trespassing: 30 days of hard labor.
On the evening of January 30, 1961, Clarence Graham, a student at Friendship and civil rights organizer, sat down to write a letter to his parents.
The details of exactly what happened inside were disputed in court, but what is known is that 10 men walked in and -- in defiance of the era's Jim Crow laws -- sat at the counter where people of their skin color were forbidden.
They were taken to jail, where they sat until their quick trial on trespassing charges.
Records of the trial have long since been destroyed, so it's not clear who said what in the courtroom, but the group was found guilty and offered a choice of paying a $100 fine or being sent to a labor camp for 30 days.
The group served 28 days at the camp and was released early -- not for good behavior, but because local officials wanted to get them out before the national press arrived.
Author Kimberly Johnson, who wrote a children's book about the men, "No Fear for Freedom," was integral in getting the Friendship Nine's case on the court docket.
Martin Luther King Jr. addressing how demonstrators arrested for nonviolent protests weren't disobedient in the broad sense of the word, but rather, "just being disobedient to the immorality of what that law represented," she began thinking about what she could do to help vindicate the Friendship Nine, she said.
Having their convictions vacated would attack those underlying issues head-on, he felt, and while he's proud to be able to "play some small part in history" by exonerating the men, don't call him a hero.
-- Thomas Gaither was a CORE field organizer who traveled to Rock Hill to help organize the protests.
After a stint in the Army, he became a biology professor.
"Dub" Massey graduated from Friendship and went on to get his master's degree from nearby Winthrop University.
-- Robert McCullough, the valedictorian of his high school before going to Friendship, was known by many as "brilliant" and was a natural leader for the group.
After his time in the military, he went back to school and earned a law degree from the University of Illinois.
-- David Williamson Jr. moved to the North after school before returning to the Carolinas, where he became a banker and property manager.