The Inter-American Commission on Human Rights also said it deplores the kidnappings, arbitrary detentions, torture, sexual violations and illegal raids that the panel maintains other members of the political resistance have suffered since the June 29 coup.
"We will strengthen our investigations aimed at clearing up these events, appointing a special squad that will produce the arrests of those responsible and the unrestricted application of justice," Minister of Security Oscar Arturo Alvarez Guerrero said last week.
The OAS commission said that one of the recently killed activists was 29-year-old Vanessa Zepeda Alonzo, who was found February 3.
The Inter-American Commission on Human Rights also expressed concern that activists' family members are being threatened and harassed, with two of them killed in the past few weeks.
She was the daughter of journalist Enrique Gudiel, who broadcasts the resistance radio program "Siempre al Frente con el Frente" ("Always Up Front with the Front").
"The five were forced at gunpoint to walk into the mountains, where two of the women were sexually violated; the third was the victim of robbery and death threats, and the two men were subjected to physical torture," the report said.
"Unfortunately, Honduras has a history of violence," said Otto Reich, who served the past three Republican presidents in a number of high-level Latin American posts.
"People from all political sectors have the right to fully and freely exercise their right to freedom of expression and their right to assembly, without violence and in accordance with the law and with inter-American standards for the protection of human rights," the report said.
Micheletti and the coup plotters maintained that Zelaya was trying to remain in power by maneuvering to hold a referendum that ultimately could have allowed him to run again.
"There's a lot of ad hoc violence, but if there's organized violence against political supporters of Zelaya, then that is wrong, and it should be condemned."