Washington (CNN) -- The retired general who took charge of relief efforts in New Orleans, Louisiana, after Hurricane Katrina said Thursday that the U.S. military should have arrived in earthquake-devastated Haiti 24 hours earlier.
Honore, best known for his management of the recovery efforts after the hurricane that killed about 2,000 people on the Gulf Coast, said "time is of the essence" in helping quake survivors.
"This is a time when the world looks to us and they say -- given our capacity, given our unique capacity to project power around the world -- that we have to project that not just for our own interests but for the interests of the world as a whole," he said.
We continue to look at the port facility, which will be critical to be able to bring in substantial amounts of aid, and we're trying to figure out a strategy for how to function," he said.
"We now have multiple search and rescue units on the ground.
Airlines such as American, Delta, Jet Blue and United were helping provide assistance to the country in the form of free miles for its program members and seats for aid organizations.
Several U.S. military units planned to depart from the United States for Haiti during the day, but it was unclear whether all would be able to do so.
The 82nd was deployed to New Orleans in the aftermath of Katrina.
"We're working feverishly and aggressively to support and provide life-sustaining capability to the citizens of Haiti," Air Force Gen. Douglas Fraser said.
A disaster relief assessment team was surveying the area, and a battalion of paratroopers along with a command-and-control element from the 82nd Airborne arrived Thursday, he said.
"We are aggressively pursuing every action we can to provide relief to Haiti."
Coast Guard aircraft were used Wednesday to move nine critically injured people from the U.S. Embassy in the capital to hospitals in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, he said.
The United States is providing support to the approximately 45,000 Americans in Haiti, only 300 of whom have expressed an interest in leaving the country, Mills said.
Secretary of State Hillary Clinton said the United States is providing security help to the the United Nations, which was "equally devastated by the collapse of its headquarters" for its peacekeeping force in Haiti.
Because the U.S. Embassy is one of the few structures that remains intact, it has become a point of support, providing medical assistance for Americans and Haitians who are able to reach it, Mills said.
CNN State Department Producer Elise Labott contributed to this story.