(CNN) -- Neda Agha-Soltan: The night before she was killed on the streets of Tehran, the woman the world would come to know simply as Neda had a dream.
"I told her to be very careful, and she said she would."
"This video footage was seen by millions and became an iconic image of the Iranian resistance," John Darnton, curator of the Polk Awards, told the newspaper.
According to a release by museum curator Gary Mack, Warren was 15 at the time of the assassination, and because students were given the day off for the president's visit, he took his camera to Love Field to watch the arrival of Air Force One.
Kennedy was killed less than an hour after Warren captured the start of his visit to Texas.
Her goal was to collect the stories of ordinary Americans who were making a difference in their local communities and to share those stories on her Web site.
But historians are pretty sure he was born at a guerrilla base under Soviet protection in the Soviet Union.
When Time magazine's Frances Romero wrote about the supreme leader of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the profile began, "An easy way of summing up Kim's life in one sentence would be to throw in the words reportedly, allegedly and the occasional is said to."
Post told CNN that Kim Jong Il once kidnapped the most prominent South Korean movie star and kept her under house arrest with her husband for eight years.
Post said he believes that some of his toughness on North Korean nuclear policy now may be the indication of a power struggle at the end of his rule.
Miller missed the gold by nine one-hundredths of a second, but he now holds the U.S. record for most medals in Alpine skiing.
And there are a number of people who are so famous or controversial that anything they say or do becomes news.
Some of these people do what we expect of them: They run for office, pass legislation, start a business, get hired or fired, commit a crime, make an arrest, get in accidents, hit a home run, overthrow a government, fight wars, sue an opponent, put out fires, prepare for hurricanes and cavort with people other than their spouses.
What they have done may be unique, heroic, cowardly or ghastly, but they capture our imaginations.