(CNN) -- A testy exchange erupted on Thursday between Sen. John McCain and Joint Chiefs Chairman Gen. Martin Dempsey during the latter's testimony about September's deadly attack on the U.S. diplomatic mission in Benghazi, Libya.
"Then you go on to say, 'Our military was appropriately responsive,' even though seven hours passed and two Americans died at the end of that.
So, for you to testify before this committee that they were consistent with available threat estimates is simply false; that our military was appropriately responsive."
In response to a question from Sen. Kelly Ayotte, R-New Hampshire, Defense Secretary Leon Panetta said he was aware of a cable sent in August by Ambassador Stevens that said security in Benghazi was not adequate.
"And frankly without an adequate warning, there was not enough time given the speed of the attack for armed military assets to respond."
Panetta was firm throughout his testimony that there were no "undue delays" in decision making and there was no denial of support from Washington or from the military combatant commanders when the attack happened.
In his remarks, Panetta said the initial reports of the attack were given "almost immediately" to the U.S. Embassy in the Libyan capital of Tripoli.
Ayotte and Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-South Carolina asked how many times Obama spoke with Panetta and Dempsey after learning about the attack.
"Did anybody leave any base anywhere to go to the aid of the people under attack in Benghazi, Libya, before the attack ended?"
Panetta said a Marine security team platoon stationed in Spain was ordered to prepare for deployment while another platoon prepped to head to the embassy in Tripoli.
Armed drones, AC-130 gunships or fixed-wing fighters with the associated tanking, armaments, targeting and support capabilities were not near Libya, and it would have taken at least nine hours to deploy, he said.
Members of the team and others at the annex facility provided emergency medical assistance and supported the evacuation of all personnel.
Panetta also said there must be some reliance on host countries to help with security.
During her testimony, Clinton teared up as she recounted meeting the arrival of the caskets containing the bodies of Stevens and former Navy SEAL commandos Tyrone Woods and Glen Doherty, both of whom had been working as diplomatic security officers.