(CNN) -- With each day, the hunt for Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 becomes one of the most baffling mysteries of the modern era, but history offers many great quests in which mankind searched for something or someone lost.
Not even legendary King Arthur and his knights could find it, though their crusade inspired lore and romance.
For decades, the ship was considered forever lost at the bottom of the ocean -- until 1985, when scientists found the wreckage on the seabed.
That allowed investigators to blame the crash on a series of errors by the pilots and a failure to react effectively to technical problems.
He vanished on July 30, 1975, after he stood outside the Machus Red Fox restaurant in Michigan and made a phone call.
The swashbuckling aviatrix and pioneering woman embarked on the first around-the-world flight at the Equator in June 1937.
Some believe they ran out of fuel and crashed into the sea -- similar to one theory of what happened to the Malaysia Airlines plane.
In their lust for wealth, the Spaniards traveled through modern Florida, Texas and Mexico in search of Cibola.
The couple's great passion has been captured in theater and film, thanks to Shakespeare on stage and Elizabeth Taylor in film.
"Many have searched for the tomb of Alexander the Great, but no one had searched for that missing piece of ancient Egypt's story -- the tomb of Cleopatra, who took her own life rather than surrender her homeland to the Romans," Hawass wrote.
Many ships, planes and people have disappeared in the Bermuda Triangle, a section of the Atlantic Ocean in a "triangle" marked by the points of Bermuda, Miami and San Juan, Puerto Rico.
"The ocean has always been a mysterious place to humans, and when foul weather or poor navigation is involved, it can be a very deadly place.
By the way, no official mapping exists for triangle's boundaries, NOAA says.
"The significance of a finding that there are other beings who share this universe with us would be absolutely phenomenal, it would be an epochal event in human history," Sagan once declared.