(CNN) -- Every four years, hundreds of reporters, photojournalists, producers and other journalists take to the campaign trail to document every move of the men and women who want to become president.
Campaigns are grueling for candidates, their staff and the journalists who cover them but for all of the advances in technology, nothing replaces seeing a candidate up close day after day interacting with people.
The Obama campaign promptly responded to the story I filed about the exchange, which I captured on my iPhone, by criticizing Romney for not standing up to "hateful and over-the-line rhetoric."
Life on the campaign trail also fleshes out another truth: Though political reporters do compete to break and cover news, we often stick together -- like a "team of rivals" -- when one or all of us feel set upon.
But, I noticed one cable news producer filming directly in front of Santorum and some photojournalists snapping away.
There was the time last November in Des Moines, Iowa, as sexual harassment allegations dogged Herman Cain, that his bodyguard tried to keep a Washington Post reporter at a distance and from asking a question.
Then there was the time Rick Perry apparently hoped to avoid questions about the U.S. Supreme Court's delay of the execution of a Texas death-row inmate.
I picked up a trick occasionally used by still photographers covering the end of an event, as the candidate is shaking hands with supporters: If you see a cute baby, wait nearby for your moment.
Holding a smiling youngster who gripped a Romney sign in her two small fists, he lifted her high up in the air.
Another fun moment was when, after hearing Romney talk for months about his friendship with an inspiring Olympic athlete, we finally met the man -- gold-medalist and speed skater Derek Parra.
A longtime runner who was hobbled by back surgery the previous summer, Perry would often wake early in those frigid December mornings and hit the treadmill in whatever hotel chain the campaign and its traveling press corps were in.
I noticed, enviously, that he usually kept a faster pace and ran for longer times than I did.
I later spun this morning workout routine of ours into a story about Perry's late burst of energy, and how his campaign might have worked out a little differently had be been in top physical condition during those damaging fall debates.