He's presiding over a historic majority in the House while the Senate is controlled by Republicans for the first time in nearly a decade.
But even if they don't block Boehner from another term wielding the Speaker's gavel, their opposition is a fresh reminder of Boehner's struggles to control his rank-and-file just as he and incoming Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell try to prove that Republicans can govern heading into 2016.
Two years ago, Boehner faced a similar, poorly organized effort when a dozen House Republicans backed other candidates or declined to vote for him.
Kentucky Republican Rep. Tom Massie told reporters he opposed Boehner not because he wasn't conservative enough, but because he failed to give members enough input into legislation like the massive spending bill that passed in December.
Boehner's allies say they aren't worried about him losing his job and GOP members across the ideological spectrum left the first meeting of all House Republicans on Monday night predicting the Speaker would be re-elected.
Even Texas Rep. Roger Williams, who told CNN he didn't always support Boehner, said he thought the Speaker would overcome the challenge, and that he deserved a chance to shepherd a conservative agenda through a new session.
But he made a general pitch to his fellow Republicans on the need to stay united in the new Congress, according to several GOP members who attended the session.
FreedomWorks, a group with strong tea party ties, is part of this effort, but Boehner supporters say this group and others who have been critical of the Speaker have a history of seizing on internal feuds to raise money.
But he appeared to criticize the anti-Boehner forces for not standing up and saying they wanted someone else earlier this fall.
House Democrats are already using the Scalise story -- targeting 30 House Republicans in competitive districts and challenging them to publicly say whether or not they support him remaining in his post.
As the former chair of a group of influential House conservatives, Scalise is viewed as Boehner's bridge to those on the right, so any effort to push him out could hurt the Speaker at a time he needs to hold conservative support to keep his own job.
North Carolina Republican Sen. Richard Burr, who is a close personal friend of Boehner's said the Speaker will have to guide House members to concentrate on things that are doable.