Todd Nicely screamed twice at the top of his lungs.
He wanted to concentrate on getting home, and before that, he didn't want his squad's last image to be its leader wailing in pain.
But thanks to modern body armor and a helicopter that arrived in just six minutes -- as well as quick reactions by his fellow Marines -- Nicely lived and became just the second quadruple amputee to survive battlefield injury wounds.
"When you are out on the battlefield, you don't realize how many amputees there are because you are not there and you don't see them," Nicely said.
It doesn't matter whether you are a quad or missing one leg, it doesn't matter, everybody is in it together and it's like one big family in there."
Siller, who was headed to play golf that morning, instead returned to his firehouse to grab his 60 pounds of gear, put it on and run the three miles to the burning towers, where he was killed.
Siller went to visit Marrocco at Washington's Walter Reed Army Medical Center, where he promised the Army specialist his organization would help with one of the soldier's greatest needs, a home with smart technology.
The Tunnel to Towers Foundation has agreed to build homes for the other quadruple amputees and -- it hopes -- for triple amputees.
"When you're not able to do things for yourself it kind of sets you back a little bit, so getting in there and getting to run at everything with a full head of speed is going to be pretty nice."
They also explain to vets what conditions cannot be claimed as related to their time in the military.
Pruden, the former Army captain who is an alumni manager for the Wounded Warrior Project, is concerned that as wars end, Department of Defense funds for the severely wounded will dry up and the VA will struggle to fill the void.
He wants to raise public awareness on the plight of this new kind of veteran, the triple or quadruple amputee, and help them get homes that work for them, he said.
Nicely wanted to actually walk into a room at Walter Reed and show Mills something important.