That might not seem like a lot for a Premier League team, but for one that last season only narrowly avoided a return to the third tier, it's a significant amount.
However, the Al-Hasawi family could potentially achieve a much greater return on their investment at Forest than, say, the series of money men who have followed in Al Fahim's unsuccessful attempt to make capital out of former EPL side Portsmouth.
Or in the case of Portsmouth were taken over by the UAE's Sulaiman al Fahim and eventually became the first Premier League club to go into administration.
Forest's near neighbor Leicester City, another club to have lost top-flight status in recent years, is now owned by a Thai group -- but Chadwick says there is a big difference in their earning potential.
"Forest's financial position, while not being especially strong, is more stable than it has been over the past five years or so," he said.
Foreign investors once flocked to the lucrative but highly expensive Premier League -- Manchester United was reportedly valued at £1 billion when the Qatari royal family was linked with the club -- but the second-tier Championship is now proving to be more value for money.
Doughty brought in former England manager Steve McClaren at the start of last season with disastrous results, and the current FC Twente coach's short reign resulted in the Forest benefactor -- considered one of the most powerful men in UK business -- standing down as chairman.
One would hope that Forest as a club have learned their lessons.
If Forest fans are getting overexcited about their future, they don't have to look very far for proof that such a takeover can go horribly wrong.
In came former England manager Sven Goran Eriksson and international star Sol Campbell on lucrative long-term deals, but they had both gone before the end of that season as Munto's promises to wipe out crippling debts proved empty.
No matter your intentions or how much money you've got, experience of the industry is very important," Chadwick said.
"But if their definition of glory days is to get back into the Premier League then it will require a more modest sum.