Editor's note: Rich Roll, one of Men's Fitness magazine's "25 Fittest Guys in the World" in 2009, was the first athlete to compete in the Ultraman World Championships on an entirely plant-based diet.
I saw my true reflection, and I couldn't lie to myself anymore.
I was in the worst shape of my life.
Your time is no longer your own, and you resign yourself to "maturity," "filling out" or whatever euphemism for middle age that soothes that idea that you are simply overweight, unfit and unhealthy.
Not a vague, wishy-washy notion that I should "get in shape," maybe "eat better" or possibly "go on a diet," but rather a specific long-term plan to enhance my wellness in a way that would not only stick, but fit within the parameters of my busy life as a full-time lawyer, husband and father of four small children.
At 42 years old, I competed in the Ultraman World Championships, a grueling three-day uber-endurance triathlon circumnavigating the Big Island of Hawaii that involves 6.2 miles of swimming, 260 miles of cycling and culminates with a 52.4-mile double marathon run.
But my point is that change starts with a decision followed by baby steps along a new, consistent trajectory that, over time, can lead to dramatic results.
But if I could experience such a vast transformation in my own life, I know with certainty that everybody has within himself the power to enact his own well-balanced transformation.
Instead, establish something very concrete you would like to achieve on a future date.
Chart your progress, as meeting interim milestones will boost your confidence and invest you more deeply in the ultimate goal.
Do what you love: When it comes to exercise, it shouldn't be too painful.
And don't be too rigid -- mix it up with a variety of activities you like to keep it interesting and fresh.
(In the last two years, I have not gotten sick or even suffered a cold.)
The idea that you can never eat a cupcake or sleep in again is daunting at best.
And if you miss a beat, don't flog yourself; it only leads to discouragement and quitting altogether.
Prioritize: Take an honest look at your average week, identify your inefficient uses of time and eliminate the things that don't serve your goals.
Establishing a consistent rhythm of repetition is key, and another reason that your choice of exercise should be something you truly enjoy.
The opinions expressed in this article are solely those of Rich Roll.