British media reported Thursday that Andy Coulson, Cameron's former director of communications, has been told by police that he should go to a police station to be arrested Friday morning over his alleged knowledge or involvement in the mobile phone-hacking practices that took place while he was editor of the News of the World.
British media have reported that Coulson will be formally questioned on Friday under suspicion of involvement in hacking and have speculated that he is likely to be released on bail and appear in court at a later date, alongside other arrested former News of the World journalists.
He is a son of media magnate Rupert Murdoch, the head of News Corp., which owns News International.
The 168-year-old newspaper, which sells more than 2.5 million copies every Sunday, was brought down by an avalanche of public and political fury in the wake of revelations that the hacking victims included a missing 13-year-old girl who was later found to have been murdered.
Prime Minister Cameron Wednesday called the possibility that the hacking had taken place "absolutely disgusting" and backed calls for an independent inquiry into the affair after a police investigation concludes.
Police launched the new investigation this year in response to widespread complaints from high-profile figures who feared they may have been targets.
Prof. Steven Fielding, at the Centre for British Politics at the University of Nottingham, told CNN it seemed News International had decided the brand was so badly damaged that it made more sense to close the paper.
The company is "close to identifying" how the hacking of murdered teenager Milly Dowler's phone happened, a News International source told CNN, declining to be named discussing internal corporate business.
Graham Foulkes, whose son was killed in the terrorist attack, said Wednesday his phone number and home address were found in the files of a private investigator working for the News of the World.
"However, in view of the significant public and political concern expressed following the publication of this information," police Thursday "made a formal referral to the IPCC," they said in a statement.
The paper has apologized for hacking into the voice mails of celebrities and politicians, paying compensation to actress Sienna Miller and offering money to others.
News of the World was the first British Fleet Street newspaper Rupert Murdoch bought, in 1969, as he began to propel himself from Australian newspaper proprietor to international media magnate.