(CNN) -- While we learned that rising stars in the Democratic Party come in younger (Sandra Fluke) and older (Elizabeth Warren) versions, it was a party elder and established superstar (President Bill Clinton) who stole the show on Day Two of the Democratic convention.
That's how long Clinton's speech lasted on Wednesday night, but no one in Charlotte gave a rip.
The Full Clinton showed up Wednesday with a combative, charming and substantive piece of oratory that many in the political class immediately billed as one of the best speeches he has ever delivered.
Bill Clinton saved the Democratic Party once.
Aimed right at voters Obama needs," Murphy wrote.
Forget that Clinton strayed from his prepared remarks repeatedly and was not even halfway through his speech when the clock struck 11 p.m. on the East Coast -- the Big Dog delivered.
And the issue further snowballed when Democratic Gov.
He put a floor under the crash.
Listen to me," he said, as the crowd roared.
Clinton rallied the crowd, urging them of the importance of re-electing Obama to finish what he described as a tough ride from the start.
While Tuesday's session was considered a strong opener, there was a growing controversy over the omission in the current platform of a line from the 2008 platform that recognized Jerusalem as the capital of Israel.
When Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa, chairman of the convention, said that the motion passed with a two-thirds majority, some delegates made it clear they weren't happy.
"After a roaring first night that we all proclaimed was successful, they started out Wednesday night with a stumble," said CNN Senior Political Analyst David Gergen, who has advised Democratic and Republican presidents.
CNN Chief National Correspondent John King said the conversation should have never come up.
Those two worldviews are at the heart of the ideological schism between the Democrats and Republicans.
John Hickenlooper's speech about how he started a successful chain of Denver brewpubs from next to nothing.
Republicans look out for themselves, while Democrats look out for each other.
And while speakers addressed Bain during prime time, Democrats seemed to be more fired up about another target Wednesday night: his running mate.
But their budget goes astray in not acknowledging that we are responsible not only for ourselves and our immediate families," she said.
Her comments were carried further by U.S. Rep. Chris Van Hollen of Maryland, who serves on the same House Budget Committee chaired by Ryan.
Wednesday night's program certainly highlighted Romney's time at Bain, especially when three laid-off workers took the stage to blast the GOP nominee as a heartless businessman motivated only by profit.
Watching the convention this week, it seems those attacks fuel plenty of fire against Romney, one that may not die down anytime soon.