"It's one of the best foods in the world for a couple of reasons, and I think it's because it has this very unique trait which is that it is on one side, extremely rich, but on the other, extremely delicate," Ariane Daguin, the CEO and founder of D'Artagan, a gourmet food company that started 25 years ago supplying Americans with foie gras.
"We are the easiest target in the world for a couple of reasons, one our accent, it's called foie gras, it's a French word," Daguin tells CNN.
The liver, in the center of the bird's body, stores fat the bird traditionally uses on long migratory flights.
At Hudson Valley, ducks are raised to 12 weeks before they begin the gavage process in pens 4-feet by 6-feet with 11 ducks in each enclosure, according to Marcus Henley, the farm's operations manager.
At the beginning, each bird gets about 3 ounces of food, which increases to 10 ounces by the end of the program, Henley said, noting that the esophagus can hold up to a liter of volume.
"The whole point of the production method is to create this diseased liver, which is unlike any other form of animal agriculture where you're not just growing animals to be eating, but you're also torturing the animal to grossly enlarge its organs for consumption," Bryan Pease, an attorney and chairman of the board of the Animal Protection and Rescue League, said.
Those opposing the production of foie gras have succeeded in getting California to adopt a law that will make it illegal to serve or produce in 2012.
Pease says his group has hired staff in New York to begin to target Manhattan restaurants to have them remove foie gras from the menu or face protests.
Chef Dan Barber, inspired by the work of a Spanish foie gras producer, Eduardo Sousa, has begun experimenting with  "ethical foie gras,"  harvested from geese allowed to roam Stone Barns Center in Pocantico Hills, New York., foraging for food, according to their natural feeding cycles.
"What they should be interested in is making sure that the farming practices in the world are sound," she said.