Situated in the Outback, it is close to nothing: The cities of Adelaide and Alice Springs are respectively nine hours south and eight hours north, and the nearest town -- William Creek, official population three -- takes 3½ hours to reach, provided the dirt roads aren't closed due to rain.
One sees why outlaws chose to come here: It's far from anything, it's desolate, it's pockmarked with underground homes, and it offers the possibility of a fresh start and the hope of a fortune.
There are olive groves for the Italians and Greeks, a Chinese restaurant so Asians can taste home and grocery stores with fare ranging from sweet chili sauce to imported Greek fondant and a whole kangaroo tail, complete with fur.
And, of course, they sit on the hot, dusty earth, shooing away oddly persistent flies as they lose all sense of time searching for opal in the dirt, hoping that the next stone they turn might let them retire early.
The tour provides a unique opportunity for visitors to experience the vastness of the Australian Outback and to learn about what it's really like to live there.
Old Timers Mine Museum: One of Coober Pedy's most popular destinations, the mine provides visitors with an opportunity to learn about the search for opal and the struggles of Coober Pedy's earliest miners.
Fossicking: Tourists in Coober Pedy are welcome to dig for their own opal fortune at public fossicking sites in town.
Drivers are warned not to drive through the Outback at night, because of the lack of gas stations and the threat of accidents caused by kangaroos; rain in the Outback may also render roads impassable, and drivers should not expect to have cell phone reception in the desert.
Desert Cave Hotel: Located in the middle of Coober Pedy's main street, this is the town's only four-star hotel.
John's serves up not only traditional pies but also regional specialties like the Malu (smoked kangaroo, tomato sauce, mozzarella cheese, eggplant, marinated tomatoes, roasted peppers, eggplant and olives) and the Coat of Arms (sweet cranberry, mozzarella cheese, Camembert, emu metworst, spinach and smoked kangaroo).
The restaurant is renowned for its seafood, especially the Saganaki prawns, so don't be afraid to try some fish in the desert.
The Pink Roadhouse (Oodnadatta): Situated in a largely aboriginal town of fewer than 300 people, this combo restaurant, grocery store and post office looms over the town in all its pink, hand-painted-sign splendor.
The walls are covered with photos and business cards from folks who have passed through, and the owners always welcome friendly conversation and questions about what it's like to live in such rural territory.