Now the first task for every federal candidate in this midterm election year will be to read the Supreme Court's ruling on campaign finance for a reality check.
But the larger implications could be huge, played out for years to come in a variety of continuing challenges to current restrictions.
The ruling "eviscerates our nation's campaign finance laws, leaving a remnant incapable of dealing with the grave problems of democratic legitimacy that those laws were intend to resolve," he added.
Roberts emphasized the free-speech rights of donors and downplayed the concerns the ruling would further erode public confidence in the political system.
He supports those individual controls, but "what doesn't make any sense is that you can only give that amount of money to a few candidates, because somehow my giving money to (U.S. Rep.) Martha Roby of Alabama could corrupt (former Rep.) Allen West of Florida," he told CNN.
Not only are our elections being put up for auction, these donors are making an investment in the democratic system for their own agenda and we taxpayers have to foot the bill," he said.
That and a subsequent decision from a federal appeals court in Washington have led to a proliferation of so-called "super PACs"-- separate political action committees that can raise and spend unlimited amounts of cash from businesses, unions, and advocacy groups.
The difference is in how they are organized for regulatory and tax purposes, and by the amounts of money they are allowed to spend.
Figures from the Center for Responsive Politics for the 2012 race showed about 600 donors leveraged their money to each give the maximum of about $48,000 total -- benefitting no more than 17 presidential or congressional candidates.
The FEC will now be tasked with taking this high court opinion and crafting new rules to ease limits on aggregate spending.
But as Roberts noted, other big-move avenues exist to funnel money to outside groups willing to spend freely.
And if there is one thing that we Americans believe with all our hearts, it is that freedom never corrupts."