Afghan Election Day - Journey to a remote part of Afghanistan ahead of a presidential election.
The U.S. pulled its combat troops out of Iraqi cities and towns back on June 30th.
At least 95 people were killed and more than 560 others were wounded by six explosions across Baghdad, including two that targeted government buildings.
AZUZ: U.S. forces are also helping out in Afghanistan today, as that country holds just the second presidential election in its history.
Ivan Watson went along for the ride to one of these polling places and he tells us about the preparations leading up to today's election.
We're escorting this truck up ahead of us -- in the dust, you might be able to see it -- and it's taking ballot boxes up to some of the polling stations here in Afghanistan's central Bamiyan province.
Despite the fact that Bamiyan is one of the safest provinces in the country -- it's been spared the daily car bombs and roadside bombs that the south and the east of the country have seen, and some of the assassination attacks -- it still hasn't really benefited from reconstruction.
And there is a lot of support here for the incumbent president, Hamid Karzai, in part because some of the traditional ethnic Hazara leaders, this is a predominantly ethnic Hazara province, they have endorsed the incumbent president, Hamid Karzai.
AZUZ: South Korea's space program is in a holding pattern after officials cancelled yesterday's rocket launch just eight minutes before liftoff!
Bad weather or technical concerns could cause delays, but if everything goes according to schedule, the space shuttle Discovery will go up Tuesday morning on its 37th mission into space.
What you're looking at is Hurricane Bill as seen from the orbiting space station.
But forecasters don't expect it to affect the southern United States, although they say it's too early to tell if Bill will have an impact on the northeast.
You can find all of these features on an electric guitar.
They've seen some changes during that time -- the type of strings, the shape of the instrument, even what it's made out of -- but they've all basically sounded the same.
HALPEN: With the advantage of digital audio and recording systems that are available in-house, to where everyone can do it themselves.
BARRAL: The guitar can also be connected to a nearby computer that gives more choices: the type of amplifier you use, the equalization, effects and even record a "loop" and play on top of it, all live.
For some guitarists, this is the evolution of sound: endless turning possibilities, cutting edge technology and the ability to produce different sounds with just one click.
Now you tell us: Is this cool, with technology making something better?
The pesky python slithered up on a California family's front stoop this week before getting stuck in a nearby fence.
When animal control showed up, it took two officers to wrestle the rascally reptile into the truck.