Speaking to Rolling Stone from her longtime home of Switzerland, the superstar tells us she has most of the songs in place for the next record and is gearing up to find a producer and define the sound of the album.
Both of those productions really appeal to me, and the direction that they took -- just trying to get ideas for myself.
I do want it to be perfect, and I want it to be something that I really enjoy and a product of my inspiration -- not a product of necessarily anything I've done before or anyone I've been before in regards to making records, because it's been a long time.
But at the same time I'm going deeper, and I'm being more realistic with my point of view on things.
So maybe letting go is going to be a little bit difficult, and I know that when I involve a producer that's sort of what will happen to a degree.
It's overwhelming, and it's overwhelming trying to pinpoint who to go with on this project, because it will determine a lot of the direction, and I'm committing myself.
And that's part of the whole thing of being creative -- until you commit, you can change your mind and rewrite it and create a new melody and change the story.
It's probably the right time now to start taking it more seriously as far as getting into the studio, especially since I'm finished producing the show.
What we can do in that room I really wouldn't be able to do anywhere else -- certainly not tour with it, because the technology is so sophisticated you can't really move around with it.
I wanted to bring those more alive, so I used that as the influence in regards to the fashion and the look of things.
It always disappoints me when I go to a concert and they don't play my favorite song, or at least one of their biggest hits.
That process, for me, even without being the performer, was a fantastic experience, and really the big reason why I didn't plunge into the record right away.
And I thought, "I really admire someone taking the license to do that, owning that."
See the original story at RollingStone.com.