This is something I would never have considered before the advent of the blogosphere and social media, but where better now to start than at the home of the likes of Christiane Amanpour and Becky Anderson.
I would be lying -- something I am not prone to do whatever the haters may say -- if I said I was not seriously chuffed about this.
(I would incidentally have preferred no stars in the Mail on Sunday to the one that they gave me.
At the first event, hosted by the Financial Times, my partner Fiona and my daughter Grace were sitting in the front row, squirming as I told how I had written a chapter on the Queen, named German Chancellor Angela Merkel as the most impressive current political leader, interviewed and profiled U.S. Vogue editor Anna Wintour as my main voice on leadership, done the same with Arianna Huffington as a great innovator, talked to gymnast Nadia Comaneci about her "perfect 10," and presented Paralympian athlete and Tanni Grey-Thompson and Australian surfer Layne Beachley as two of the best interviews about resilience.
As Grace said afterwards -- well to be honest she heckled me at the time with the words "shut up Dad, this is embarrassing," -- I was answering a question I had not been asked, namely "why aren't there more women in the book?'
So I waffled a bit about glass ceilings and how Fiona's generation had won the battle for women's equality in the eyes of the law but Grace's generation needed to win the battle in terms of the culture of the land.
So when the same bloody question came up again I started off with my list of names but stupidly mentioned the Queen first promoting a left-leaning chorus of "for heaven's sake she is hardly typical," so that by the time I got to Fiona's point, I was struggling again.
In other words there's me trying to get the right answer to a question that has genuinely been troubling me, and an arch feminist says I need to do more of the Alpha Male thing.
I have more events to do.
And the next time I sit down with CNN's woman winners, Christiane or Becky, I need to have a better answer than the ones I have been deploying thus far.