Washington (CNN) -- Top White House and congressional negotiators failed to reach agreement Tuesday on a spending plan for the rest of the current fiscal year, bringing the federal government closer to a shutdown at the end of the week.
Republicans, under pressure from the conservative Tea Party movement for deep cuts that will reduce the size of government, blame Democrats for failing to pass a fiscal year 2011 budget last year when they controlled both congressional chambers and say that President Barack Obama and his party are ignoring the peril of the rising federal deficits and national debt.
Obama said that if the two men failed to make progress on their own, he expected them to return to the White House on Wednesday.
Obama also said he could support one more short-term funding extension to avert a partial shutdown, but only if a deal is reached on spending for the rest of the current fiscal year, which ends September 30.
He and Reid rejected the GOP proposal for a seven-day extension that would include $12 billion in spending cuts while providing the military with funding for the rest of the fiscal year, but Reid added he would consider amending the measure if it reached the Senate in time for action before the current spending resolution expires.
"Our goal is to keep the government open," Boehner insisted.
As the potential for a shutdown grew, an aide to Boehner said the lawmaker also told House Administration Committee Chairman Dan Lungren, R-California, to issue guidance to all members on how the House would operate in the event of a government shutdown.
Democratic sources said they want about half the overall cuts in this spending bill to come from mandatory spending programs, and that they have proposed the necessary reductions in programs at the U.S. Department of Agriculture, the Justice Department, the Treasury Department and Pell Grants.
Republicans, who want any spending cuts to reflect a reduction in the size of government, note that reducing the spending in a mandatory program for one year doesn't prevent the amount from returning to its original level the following year.