First there was the drifter living in a drainage tunnel with pictures of boys who looked eerily similar to Etan.
In the days and weeks after he went missing in May, 1979, police, the family and neighborhood volunteers worked tirelessly tracking down leads, according to Cohen.
What had been a stream of calls slowed to a trickle, but kept coming, with their stories of boys matching Etan's description seen in places near and far.
Three years later, in 1982, the roller-coaster would start its climb again with reports that a man, Juan Antonio Ramos, had swiped a boy's book bag and tried to lure him and another boy into the drainage tunnel where he was living.
Interest moved on to other reports, Cohen wrote in her book: A photo in Israel, another in Massachusetts.
Three years later, in 1991, after helping secure another conviction against Ramos, federal authorities visited the Patz family again.
At the same time, the federal authorities said they'd come to the end of their journey, saying only New York state prosecutors could take the case to court.
In 2010, Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance reopened the investigation after his election, something he had promised to do during his campaign.
The promise that authorities were closer to mounting a criminal case seemed alluringly close last week, when investigators flooded the neighborhood and began dismantling the basement where handyman Othniel Miller once had a workshop.
Mike Huff, a retired police detective and cold-case investigator in Tulsa, Oklahoma, who now heads the International Association of Cold Case Investigators, said as he watched coverage of the case, the kinds of details that were emerging led him to believe investigators were confident they had finally come up with a solid line on hard physical evidence in the case.
The big news came over the weekend, when it leaked out that investigators had recovered a chunk of concrete that appeared to be stained with blood.
"The longer it gets away, the more you really have to have hopes and prayers for technology to come into it," he said.
While investigators didn't get the answers they wanted -- again -- Huff says there's still some good to take out of the effort.