In addition to the obvious -- the selection of the nation's first black president -- Tuesday night's coverage on CNN showcased groundbreaking technology.
It looked like a scene straight out of "Star Wars."
She even referenced the classic movie on her own, saying, "It's like I follow in the tradition of Princess Leia.
"About a dozen years, I've been trying to do it," David Bohrman, CNN's senior vice president and Washington bureau chief, said to Blitzer on "The Situation Room" on Wednesday.
Chuck Hurley, the Washington bureau's senior producer of video and the staffer tapped by Bohrman to manage the execution of the "hologram," called it simple chroma-key technology that's been taken "to the Nth degree."
Hurley said the tiny cameras "talk" to the New York studio's cameras, meaning that when a New York camera moves, it "tells" the cameras in the tent which direction it's moving and keeps the subject in the correct proportions.
Gal Oz, a SportVU designer who came to the United States to work with CNN on the endeavor, said it was originally designed "to create a matrix effect in sports" -- in other words, to provide 360 degrees of perspective for instant replays.
"We could have had a much crisper, more realistic shot, almost to the extent where the viewer at home would have had no idea even that the person wasn't really there," Hurley said.
But because the Arizona site didn't go through as much testing in the final hours, and because the election was called in Obama's favor earlier in the evening than many expected, Chicago's "Casper" was the only "hologram' venue put to use.
"But television evolves, and how we do things evolves, and at some point -- maybe it's five years or 10 years or 20 years down the road -- I think there's going to be a way that television does interviews like this because it allows for a much more intimate possibility for a remote interview."
The day after her virtual appearance in New York, Yellin said this kind of new technology is what keeps television news entertaining, even when it's presenting important political stories.
Now, in hindsight, Yellin only wishes she could have come up with a better "Star Wars" joke.