Countless statues, murals, libraries, schools, parks and streets are named after him -- he even has his own national monument.
"I was really surprised that there wasn't already a film out about Chavez's life, so that's why I spent the past four years making this and hope the country will join me in celebrating his life and work," Diego Luna said during Tuesday's screening of "Cesar Chavez: An American Hero" in New York.
Not to mention public awareness about the dangers of pesticides to farm workers and helping outlaw the short-handled hoe.
States such as New York, where farm workers face long hours without any overtime pay or a day of rest, are of concern for human rights activist Kerry Kennedy, president of the Robert F. Kennedy Center for Justice and Human Rights.
Kennedy is urging the passing of the Farmworkers Fair Labor Practices Act, which would give farm workers the right to one day of rest each week, time-and-a-half pay for work past an eight-hour day, as well as unemployment, workers' compensation and disability insurance.
"Because they're paid by piece-rate, it puts a lot of stress on all family members to chip in.
To help facilitate that change, Luna and the film's cast -- Michael Peña as Chavez, America Ferrera as his wife, Helen, and Rosario Dawson as labor leader Dolores Huerta -- have been trekking all over the country promoting the film and a petition to make Chavez's birthday on March 31 a national holiday.
Obama endorsed it again in 2012, when he created a national monument to honor Chavez, but the resolution still has to be passed by Congress to be recognized as a national holiday.
All the sacrifices Cesar and his wife, Helen, had to make and the obstacles we had to face against the police and judges.
"Well, first Cesar didn't want to spend the time making the film because there was so much work to do, and he was hesitant on being singled out because there were so many others that contributed to the UFW's success," said Rodriguez.
"Hopefully this film will send a message to Hollywood that our [Latino] stories need to be portrayed in cinema," Luna added.
"I hope young people use the power of social media to help spread the word about social change," Dawson said.