"Nobody can see these images and not react," said Rami Khouri, a veteran analyst of the Arab world who lectures at the American University of Beirut in Lebanon.
But nearly 15 months after the uprising began, opponents have been unable to formulate a plan to dislodge the family that has ruled Syria for more than 40 years.
"Partly it's Allawite solidarity," said Khouri, who was referring to al-Assad's Allawite minority sect, which holds a disproportionately large number of positions in the security forces and in government.
While the rebellion has roiled through second-tier cities as well as broad swaths of countryside, Syria's economic powerhouse cities -- Aleppo and Damascus -- have largely remained under government control.
After initially rejecting armed rebellion against the government, the Syrian opposition has morphed into a patchwork of loosely coordinated rebel groups determined to bring down the Syrian president.
"We burned the town's police station and the city hall in order to force the security and armed forces out of this area," Akil said in a phone interview from the battlefield, as gunshots and explosions could be heard in the background.
He spoke to CNN by telephone from a hospital in Turkey, where he fled with his brother and five other wounded Atareb residents early Monday morning.
The Syrian government blames al Qaeda-linked groups for a series of devastating suicide bombings targeting the headquarters of security forces in Damascus and Aleppo.
"I'm scared of those who say they are rebels and then start to appear alongside the protesters, but then start dirty business like kidnapping people for ransom," a female student from Hama recently told CNN, on condition of anonymity.
"The plan had a lot of deficiencies, but it was the only plan that the Syrians and the Russians would agree to," said Rami Khouri, of the American University of Beirut.
And as the Syrian government and rebels accused each other of killing the children, the U.N. observers visited Houla and swiftly published a report that concluded the Syrian army fired artillery and tanks into the town.
Some analysts argue the current bloody stalemate is better than allowing Syria to become the battleground in a regional proxy war.
The Western diplomat was left hoping for what he called "a game-changer" -- a coup or an assassin's bullet that would bring down the Syrian president.