As Nel turned once again to the early hours of Valentine's Day 2013, he repeatedly challenged Pistorius over his actions in the moments leading up to Steenkamp's death.
My firearm was pointed at the door because that's where I believed that somebody was," he said.
"You knew Reeva was behind the door, and you shot at her," Nel said more than once.
Pistorius earlier denied being "ready to shoot" as he made his way to the bathroom where he says he heard what he thought was an intruder.
Pistorius replied that there is a "massive difference" between being ready for something and wanting to do it.
Nel also argued that it was "not possible" that Steenkamp would not have responded when Pistorius screamed to her about what he thought was an intruder in the house, as he has said happened.
As Nel went through the events leading up to the point of the shooting, Pistorius said that after getting up to close a balcony door and move fans inside, he heard the bathroom window sliding open and slamming into the frame.
Nel asked whether he had waited for a response, as he said would have been reasonable, pointing out that his ex-girlfriend Samantha Taylor had testified he had done that on a previous occasion when he'd heard a noise.
... My whole body was fixated on the threat," Pistorius answered.
As he broke down in tears, the judge ordered a short break to allow him time to gather himself.
He attributed the mistakes to fatigue, prompting Nel to ask whether he was too tired to continue in the stand.
After Judge Thokozile Masipa pressed Pistorius on the question, the athlete said he wasn't making mistakes because he was tired -- prompting Nel to ask why, in that case, he was making mistakes.
Nel also focused on security on the gated Silverwoods estate where Pistorius lived, pointing out that despite his claimed fear of burglary, the athlete left his cars outside and had not immediately fixed a broken window in his house.
Several witnesses have testified to hearing a man's shouts coming from the house, although they have also spoken of the terrified screams of a woman leading up to and during a volley of shots.
His disabled lower legs were amputated when he was a baby, but he went on to achieve global fame as the "Blade Runner," winning numerous Paralympic gold medals on the steel blades fitted to his prostheses.
South Africa does not have jury trials.