The launch: At the tiny, woods-ensconced Galice Resort, the damp air smells like a sharpened pencil.
We get the necessary primer before putting in: Drink lots of water, they tell us.
We've lounged away the morning on a people-free, rapids-free stretch of river in a thickly forested gorge, under a cover of damp fog -- like drifiting through a rain cloud.
But the payoff is grand: I sit down to cumin-grilled Tawanda Farms lamb chops with apricot-jalapeno chutney, assorted Oregon cheeses, fruit, eggplant puree, green olive tapenade, cucumber salad and red pepper relish with wontons and flatbread; followed by pan-seared king salmon with Oregon wasabi-thyme aioli, lemongrass cous-cous and ginger-citrus slaw; and finally topped off with Dagoba chocolate s'mores with homemade marshmallows -- each course paired with wine.
Nobody, including me, seems to care that I can barely steer.
Group bonding: This evening's icebreaker involves a spree of mutual toenail painting.
Campsite gourmet: At the grassy, rolling hillside of the Tacoma Campground, we dine under an old oak tree: smoked steelhead with cream cheese, capers and onions; roasted beets with sheep's-milk feta; greens with candied hazelnuts; grilled American Kobe-style flatiron steak with caramelized onions and housemade Worcestershire.
He instructs the eight of us -- a motley crew of three businessmen, a doctor, a lawyer, and a ranching couple -- on what to do if we run into a bear, how to tell a grizzly from a black, and how to prevent Mace mishaps.
We ride 22 miles, dipping our water bottles into the 50ยบ glacier water on the way.
We don our helmets, wetsuits and life jackets, and practice paddle maneuvers.
At camp: Tents are pitched while the guides set up and find a scenic spot for the Groover.
Jorge deftly extricates us, and we lay out clothes to dry on the rocks.
Camp goes up at Big Creek, with 200-year-old pines and grassy meadows.
Time for the 8-foot waves of the daunting Farewell Canyon, and I'm paddling too intently to see past the waves.
Later, there'll be Champagne and reminiscing on a sandy beach under a red sky at our last campsite.
To read more rafting adventures, visit Sunset.com.