(CNN) -- Casey Anthony's car reeked of what they deemed the unmistakable odor of a decomposing body, her father and a tow company manager testified Friday in the Orlando woman's capital murder trial.
"Looking back, sir, there's a lot of things I wish I would have done," George Anthony said, after being pressed by defense attorney Jose Baez as to why he didn't contact police immediately.
Anthony's attorneys argue that she did not kill Caylee, but rather that the girl accidentally drowned in the Anthonys' pool on June 16.
Birch said the smell became more noticeable after George Anthony and his wife arrived to pick up the car and they opened first the door and then the trunk.
In response to a question from Baez implying he was somehow trying to distance himself from evidence in a potential crime, George Anthony said, "I would not have walked away ... from something.
The car also figured in testimony Thursday, when George Anthony testified about an argument he had with his daughter over two missing gas cans from the storage shed at his house.
George Anthony said that when he went to get them out of his daughter's car, she bristled, brushed past him, quickly opened the trunk and retrieved the gas cans.
George Anthony said that when his daughter returned the gas cans to him, there was no tape on them.
The videos were shown over the objection of defense attorneys, who said they were irrelevant to the charges against Anthony and could improperly impeach her character and state of mind in the eyes of the jury.
Another friend, Matthew Crisp, testified that he met Anthony for lunch on July 7 and asked about Caylee.
Anthony was schooled from a young age to "hide her pain," her attorneys argue.
In cross-examination by lead defense attorney Jose Baez, those who saw Anthony and her daughter together testified that Caylee was well taken care of and that Anthony, at least to their knowledge, appeared to be a good mother.
If she is convicted of capital murder, she could be sentenced to death by the seven-woman, five-man jury.