You proceed to follow the plan, working with your students until you feel they understand the necessary mathematical principles.
Frustrated, you repeat the same process until you think they have it, and low and behold, it happens again.
So for those of you who have either never read my columns pertaining to this topic, or have "forgotten," allow me to refresh your memory with a few updates.
An interesting story related to this concern: A man from Calcutta (his name is Moeeb) asked me if I would come to Calcutta and open an auto repair shop with him, because there was such a need.
In jest, I pointed out to him that I was not proficient in camel repair and would have to decline.
So what is the answer to the universal perplexity pertaining to auto repair?
We all make poorer choices when we are under the stress of the moment.
In addition to having state-of-the-art equipment, training, qualified technicians, and information systems in place, the shop must score high with its customers.
As you can see, membership in associations such as the ones mentioned above is a significant qualifier for a shop.
Answers such as "They are the cheapest" or "They offer a lot of specials" or "Because the owner is a friend of my father's" don't have much credibility.
"They welcome my questions and concerns and take the time to answer them."
If there aren't any, then ask to see their qualifications; this will tell you a lot about the facility.
In addition, membership in such associations as the BBB (Better Business Bureau), ATEA (Automotive Technology and Energy Association), ASP (Automotive Service Professionals), ICAR (Inter-Industry Conference on Auto Collision Repair), and ASE (The Institute for Automotive Service Excellence) tells you that the owner of the shop cares about the quality of the workmanship and, most likely, operates by a code of ethics required by the association.
Is the shop equipped with state-of-the-art equipment, such as hand held computer scanners and diagnostic software, digital volt-ohm meters, logic probes, lab scopes, and on-line computer systems like CAS, Alldata, or Mitchell-On-Demand?
While "Joe down the street" is floundering and replacing parts trying to correct the problem, the specialist diagnoses with laser-like accuracy.
Less guesswork and fewer parts translates into money in your pocket, even though the labor rate is higher!
Some people think that the cost of repair varies with the size of the shop (a large shop or dealership is probably more expensive).
These days, with the high cost of equipment, training, and information systems, the cost of repair at dealerships, large repair facilities and small shops is balancing out.
Tom Torbjornsen is a veteran of 37 years in the auto service industry, an automotive journalist registered with IMPA.