In a major development, Syria has reportedly accepted a Russian proposal to hand over its chemical weapons stockpile to international control, but the details of what was actually agreed to are still murky.
He painted a graphic picture of an August 21 attack that his administration says was carried out by the regime of Bashar al-Assad and killed more than 1,400 people.
On that terrible night, the world saw in gruesome detail the terrible nature of chemical weapons, and why the overwhelming majority of humanity has declared them off limits -- a crime against humanity and a violation of the laws of war," he said.
But when, with modest effort and risk, we can stop children from being gassed to death, and thereby make our own children safer over the long run, I believe we should act.
Commentators said after the speech that most Americans probably understand the moral case, but they questioned whether Obama could ultimately sway public opinion to see things his way.
U.S. Rep. Elijah Cummings, a Maryland Democrat and staunch Obama supporter who is undecided about the Syria issue, praised him for "a very good job" but said his position remained unchanged.
Three-quarters say the United States is not the world's policeman.
Moreover, 72%, say a U.S. airstrike would not achieve significant American goals.
Obama explained the goal of military strikes.
"The purpose of this strike would be to deter Assad from using chemical weapons, to degrade his regime's ability to use them and to make clear to the world that we will not tolerate their use," Obama said.
U.S. Rep. David Valadao, R-California, agreed with Paul.
If the U.S. military attack is extremely limited and al-Assad retaliates, what are the contingency plans?
"If we fail to act, the Assad regime will see no reason to stop using chemical weapons," he said, adding that continued use could make it easier for terrorists to get their hands on them.
"But the Assad regime does not have the ability to seriously threaten our military.
The administration distrusts Syria and its ally Russia, and it worries that the proposal to hand over its chemical weapons stockpile is simply a tactic to buy time and derail a potential U.S. strike.
So he continued to press his case for a military strike.
Rep. Valadao said the president's speech did nothing to convince him to support a possible military strike.