Here are 10 things about sound and health that you may not know:
One definition of health may be that that chord is in complete harmony.
On a philosophical level, Plato, Socrates, Pythagoras and Confucius all wrote at length about the relationship between harmony, music and health (both social and physical).
Listening positions are a useful set of perspectives that can help people to be more conscious and effective in communication -- because expert listening can be just as powerful as speaking.
There is now wealth of evidence about the harmful effect of noise, and yet most people still consider noise a local matter, not the major global issue it has become.
The European Union says: "Around 20% of the Union's population or close on 80 million people suffer from noise levels that scientists and health experts consider to be unacceptable, where most people become annoyed, where sleep is disturbed and where adverse health effects are to be feared.
With 7 million deaths a year globally, that means 210,000 people are dying of noise every year.
Then there is the effect of noise on social behavior.
Schafer explains: "I coined the term schizophonia intending it to be a nervous word.
My assertion that continual schizophonia is unhealthy is a hypothesis that science could and should test, both at personal and also a social level.
My assertion that listening to highly compressed music makes people tired and irritable is based on personal and anecdotal experience - again it's one that I hope will be tested by researchers.
If the volume is turned so loudly that you can no longer hear conversation around you, or if someone has to shout at you at a distance of about 2 or 3 feet to get your attention, then you are up in the hazardous noise range."
Both music therapy and sound therapy can be categorized as "sound healing."
Less mainstream, though intellectually no more difficult to accept, is sound therapy: the use of tones or sounds to improve health through entrainment (affecting one oscillator with a stronger one).
The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Julian Treasure.