"Sport has the power to change the world," Nelson Mandela once said -- and the South African prisoner-turned-president also provided perhaps the most eloquent supporting evidence for his claim.
A year after winning South Africa's first multiracial elections, and five years after his release from prison after nearly three decades of incarceration for his anti-apartheid activities, the then-African National Congress leader revealed his acute political antennae as South Africa hosted the 1995 Rugby World Cup.
"The day's crowning moment came before the game had even begun, when Mandela went out onto the field, before a crowd of 65,000 that was 95% white, wearing the green Springbok jersey, the old symbol of oppression, beloved of his apartheid jailers," he wrote.
"This idea that sport can harmonize a nation is a cliché that South Africans use -- but we also know that sport can divide.
Mandela won the argument despite the Springboks' history of breaking the international sporting ban that the ANC had successfully forced on many South African teams during apartheid.
Two years later, Mandela and South Africa repeated the trick -- this time with soccer, the game that was the main preserve of the country's black community.
"It is thanks to Mandela that the world could finally trust us to deliver this event at a world class level," Danny Jordaan told the FIFA website.
"Nelson Mandela will stay in our hearts forever.
This sense of belonging is one that Mandela maintained with his foundation, the Nelson Mandela Children's Fund, which started the Sport for Good program with the aim of using sport as a way of improving the lives of children in both South Africa and Swaziland.
The efficacy of his discipline -- which also included 45 minutes of running "on the spot in my cell" and extensive anaerobic exercise four times a week -- was clear to see in the energy he brought to life as a free man -- keeping together the fragile, new South Africa, visiting world leaders and becoming one of the political icons of our time.