The chilling revelations open up a potentially dangerous new phase of the struggle against global terrorism because thousands of European fighters are estimated to be fighting with ISIS and other extremist groups -- a rich pool of radicals who could overwhelm Western intelligence agencies should they come home with orders to sow terrorist panic at home.
The paramilitary-style assault on the satirical French publication Charlie Hebdo killed 12 people also underscored a shift away from spectacular, large-scale attacks waged by foreign terror groups like the strike on Sept. 11, 2001.
Just last month, a single hostage taker, apparently inspired by ISIS, seized a cafe in another unlikely terror hot spot -- Sydney, Australia -- killing two people before he was shot dead by police.
Republican Rep. Michael McCaul of Texas, chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee, said the sheer simplicity of the attack in Paris, in which masked gunmen drove up to the Charlie Hebdo offices and started spraying automatic weapons was particularly disturbing.
The fact that thousands of radicalized, trained and battle-hardened killers with the skills and motivation to attack Western targets could be coming home from war is deeply concerning to American counterterrorism officials.
Thomas Sanderson, an expert on international terrorism at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, said the risk to the United States from European fighters believed to have returned home after fighting in Syria and elsewhere was significant.
Adnan Kifayat, a former State Department envoy to Muslim communities, said the Paris attack was particularly serious because it suggested radical Islamic groups were now succeeding in their campaign to use propaganda and social media to radicalize Muslims to stay in their home nations to conduct terrorism.
The White House said Wednesday that it is paying attention to the risk posed by foreign fighters and the inspiration radicals could find from jihadist groups abroad.
Benjamin cautioned that it remained unclear whether the attackers in the Paris incident were linked or inspired by ISIS or another radical terror group like one of the various branches of al Qaeda.