He didn't expect to have to talk about immigration, But one activist who felt like a party crasher in the small, hand-picked audience wanted to know if Romney backed amnesty for "illegals."
Despite efforts by top Republicans in Washington to improve the party's miserable image among Hispanic voters, not much has changed since the 2012 primary campaign, when GOP voters tore down Texas Gov.
Chris Christie, who will ceremonially sign a New Jersey version of the DREAM Act this week, must face if he decides to seek the Republican presidential nomination in 2016.
But in the hothouse context of a Republican primary, which he must win to get to a national election, signing the tuition bill seems like yet another example of Christie unfurling a giant middle finger to the very voters whose support he will need once the presidential race begins in earnest this November.
"This amnesty bill is just another in a really, really long list of reasons why Republican primary voters don't trust Christie," said a national GOP operative working for a likely 2016 rival.
But there's another way to look at it: The conservatives who despise Christie for signing the tuition bill probably wouldn't support him anyway.
But early state operatives sympathetic to Christie are hopeful that there will be even more space in 2016 for a candidate who wants the party to expand its popular appeal.
"Led by a Republican majority, the Iowa House unanimously passed the Dream Act in 2004," Albrecht said in an e-mail.
In a crowded Republican field, he even won South Carolina, that conservative bastion, by courting the party establishment and cobbling together a coalition of coastal newcomers, moderate suburbanites and national security hawks in a state loaded with military families and veterans.
As long as Christie is up front about where he stands, his positions may not hurt him as much as the right claims, said Robert Cahaly, a longtime Republican operative in South Carolina.
South Carolina GOP voters have forgiven and forgotten much more.