"The problem is, even after this debate, I don't think people truly understand the similarities and the differences in what these candidates are proposing for health care."
Discussing how "middle-income Americans have been buried" financially under the president's policies, Republican challenger Mitt Romney said health care costs have gone up by $2,500 a family.
Rising health care costs are a significant problem, though.
Obama's first specific reference to health care described how the administration pursued medical fraud in Medicare and Medicaid "more aggressively than ever before," which saved the system tens of billions of dollars.
They have saved taxpayers billions; however, a Government Accountability Office investigation concluded that while progress has been made under Obama, more could be done.
Sending Medicaid back to the states would save the federal government money, but cost states more and adversely impact those using the benefits.
"I would like to take the Medicaid dollars that go to states and say to a state, 'You're going to get what you got last year, plus inflation, plus 1%, and then you're going to manage your care for your poor in the way you think best,' " he said.
Health care costs would go up significantly to accommodate this 20% increase in the number of people over 60 who will need more health care.
In the debate, Romney said 10 times that Obama was paying for his health care package by taking the money from Medicare recipients' pockets, cutting $716 billion out of the program.
That means Medicare would cost the government more.
Hospitals and health care providers will, but that's what they agreed to in exchange for the Affordable Care Act's mandate that people have health insurance.
The candidates agreed during the debate that more needs to be done to control the cost of health care.
The team of doctors also provides preventive care.
An analysis done by the Dartmouth Atlas of Health Care found that the Cleveland Clinic did treat Medicare patients for tens of thousands of dollars less than many other medical centers.
As of right now, Medicare acts a lot like those traditional hospitals do, Thorpe said.