(Departures) -- The English countryside -- still green, still rolling, still packed with charming eccentrics -- is more appealing than ever these days, as overwhelmed urbanites are flooding the area in search of a rural idyll.
And more are still to come: The Nina Campbell-designed Ellenborough Park debuts near Cheltenham in May, and a year from now, ex-Skibo Castle hand Charles Oak will open Heckfield Place in Hampshire.
By the end of last year, the modern London design house Fox Linton Associates had left its mark not only on Coworth Park but also on the redo of this 18-bedroom property in the Cotswolds.
A New Tradition: Lime Wood Lyndhurst, Hampshire
Rooms start at $385.
Beginning in 2003 with an upscale food market selling products cultivated on-site, Daylesford now has a café, a cooking school and a clothing store, and it's become a destination for a certain London sort (Kate Moss, Liz Hurley, Kate Winslet) who makes the 90-minute drive from the city or has a country home nearby.
Carole Bamford's five-year-old Bamford Body line of organic products is now available in the States at Barneys New York.
Rooms start at $375.
So it comes as little surprise that the area is increasingly attracting British gastronomes, like London-based, Dorset-born chef Mark Hix, who opened this 45-seat spot in 2008.
At Cobb Rd.
With just 360 spectators, the performances have a magical intimacy, the storytelling appealing to adults and children alike, and after evening shows, guests are invited to dine with the cast in a fairy light-strewn tent.
Secret Gardens: Amberley Castle Amberley, West Sussex
Rooms start at $365; dinner, $635.
Now she's opened up her Rolodex, curating country house parties in a converted barn at a 15th-century stone manor in the Cotswolds.
Rooms start at $375.
At Beach Rd.
It's no secret that the English pub, once a place of beer and cigarettes, has grown increasingly posh over the years, with so-called gastropub cuisine even winning Michelin stars.
Rooms start at $140; dinner, $30.