A frothy, kitsch spectacle to some, Eurovision has long been a forum for heated geopolitical grandstanding, with allegations of bloc voting and political skulduggery dogging the contest for years.
Despite the organizers' efforts to keep the contest apolitical -- the rules state that "no lyrics, speeches, or gestures of a political or similar nature shall be permitted" -- European political tensions have often been played out on its stage, says Eurovision researcher Dr Karen Fricker.
Lebanese TV channel, Tele Liban, told the European Broadcasting Union, which broadcasts Eurovision, that Lebanon's legislation made it almost impossible to broadcast Israeli content, putting Tele-liban in breach of contest rules.
Fricker says that, much like the avowedly apolitical Olympic Games, the contest has become an important political forum because of its competitive nature, and the huge television audience it commands.
"They started to realize they can use the contest as a platform to reclaim their European heritage, and show themselves in the best possible light," he said.
Dr Derek Gatherer's analysis of Eurovision voting patterns between 1999 and 2005 concluded that bloc voting in the contest had increased.
By contrast, France, the UK, Germany, Spain and Italy -- the so-called Big Five who make the biggest financial contributions to the contest, and are given an automatic place in the final ---- did not belong to a bloc, and so had not won since the UK's victory in 1997, according to Gatherer.
John Kennedy O'Connor, author of "The Eurovision Song Contest: The Official History" said he did not believe any organized tactical or political voting occurred, as the contest's current judging format -- a mixture of public televoting and national judging panels -- made it "virtually impossible" to rig results.
He said the reason the Big Five countries tended to fare less successfully was because, from the viewing public through to the organizers, they treated the contest "as a bit of a joke."
"In this respect, I don't think we have any huge differences."