Tunis, Tunisia (CNN) -- Basma Khalfaoui was helping her daughters prepare for school the morning she heard the gunshots.
As the most visible leader of Tunisia's Popular Front -- a coalition of a dozen leftist political parties formed last October -- Belaid had been tasked with countering the rise of the Islamist-led Nahda party, which swept into power following the revolution that toppled longtime President Zine el Abidine Ben Ali in January 2011.
The last threats came from the mosques, in which the Imams there called for him to be killed," Basma says.
But as Basma approached her husband slumped in his car, she discovered the worst.
My only concern at that time was taking Chokri to the hospital as soon as possible."
The assassination, the first time since Tunisia's independence in 1956 that a politician had been the target inside the country, set off a wave of political setbacks which caused a security vacuum, creating a vicious cycle of instability that has come to characterize, and still plagues, Arab Spring nations in their post-dictator transitions.
Building on an already growing dissent against the Islamist Nahda party, the opposition immediately took to the streets following Belaid's death.
Leftist supporters clearly lacking the charismatic charm and leadership that died with Chokri, rallied behind Basma who was adored for her strength and determination immediately following her loss.
Following her time at university, she went on to join the Tunisian Association of Democratic Women, a prominent part of the Ben Ali opposition.
My concern is my daughters, but now I feel the amount of responsibility towards the people of Tunisia.
Later that week, Basma and thousands of supporters donning Chokri Belaid masks and carrying posters bearing Chokri's trademark mustache and mole, an image which has come to represent the revival of revolutionary fervor in Tunisia, gathered at her husband's graveside.
The day ended without incident, a stark contrast from the funeral procession for Belaid that just a few weeks earlier had ended in violent clashes between supporters of the leftist martyr and those of the ruling Nahda party.
"I still feel optimistic as he was before he died.