(CNN) -- Four groups that advocate for immigrant rights said Thursday they will challenge Arizona's new immigration law, which allows police to ask anyone for proof of legal U.S. residency.
Republican Arizona Gov.
"Racial profiling is illegal," Brewer said after signing the bill Friday.
"This policy violates the rights of American citizens, particularly the fast-growing Latino population of Arizona, by eliminating the basic right of due process, which we are certain that the courts will agree," Rivera said.
The law requires immigrants to carry their alien registration documents at all times and requires police to question people if there is reason to suspect they're in the United States illegally.
He said he is concerned that calls to boycott Arizona businesses and tourism will harm the state.
"Quite simply, this law is a civil rights disaster and an insult to American values," said Mary Bauer, legal director of the Southern Poverty Law Center.
But a national Republican leader said Thursday that Arizona is just filling a void left by the federal government.
Gordon said the real solution is comprehensive immigration reform that would allow more immigrants to legally enter the United States.
But Boehner said at a briefing Thursday that "there's not a chance" that Congress will approve the measure this year, especially after the recent passage of a health care reform bill.
"This is an issue of concern to all citizens of the Americas, beginning with the citizens of the United States, a country with a very rich tradition of immigration and respect for immigrants who have come to lead a better life," OAS Secretary General Jose Miguel Insulza said.
In Arizona, two popular singers also will voice their opposition.
Brewer signed into law last week is a piece of legislation that threatens the very heart of this great state," Ronstadt said.
Federal officials estimate there are about 10.8 million illegal immigrants in the United States, of which about 6.6 million come from Mexico and 760,000 from the rest of Latin America.
The other states with more illegal immigrants than Arizona are Texas, Florida, New York and Georgia.
Fifty-seven percent of those surveyed said they worried that they, a family member or a close friend could be deported.