(CNN) -- Criminals who file fraudulent tax returns by stealing people's identities could rake in an estimated $26 billion over the next five years because the IRS cannot keep up with the amount of the fraud, Treasury Inspector General J. Russell George said Tuesday.
Last year, according to the Treasury Inspector General's Office, the IRS reported that of the 2.2 million tax returns it found to be fraudulent, about 940,000 returns totaling $6.5 billion were related to identity theft.
"The primary characteristic of these cases is that the identity thief reports false income and withholding to generate a fraudulent tax return," George said.
"Even with improved identification of these returns, the next step of verifying whether the returns are fraudulent will require resources," he said.
"When the identity thief files the fraudulent tax return, the IRS does not yet know that the individual's identity will be used more than once," George said.
As of last month, the IRS reported that it had stopped the issuance of $1.3 billion in potentially fraudulent tax returns.
"The IRS acknowledges that it does not know the exact number of identity theft incidents or the number of taxpayers affected by identity theft," George said.
First, thieves obtain Social Security numbers and other personal information from insiders at hospitals, doctor's offices, car dealerships or anywhere the information is stored.
It has also issued special personal identification numbers, or PINs, to identity theft victims when they are filing future returns.
In the past four years, he said, the IRS has identified more than 490,000 taxpayers who are the victims of identity theft.
"Various new identity theft filters are in place to improve our ability to spot false returns before they are processed and before a refund is issued," Miller said.
"I can tell you that we have committed our talents and resources to prevent the issuance of fraudulent returns and have developed processes to minimize the pain felt by those who have been victimized."