New York (CNN) -- Northeast Florida State Attorney Angela Corey has made it clear that she alone will decide whether George Zimmerman will be charged in the shooting death of Trayvon Martin.
In short, they said that their client had gone rogue.
Clients fire attorneys every day, for no reason or any reason.
Not surprisingly, within hours of the now-infamous withdrawal, Corey issued a statement saying she would be holding her own news conference within 72 hours "to release new information regarding the Trayvon Martin shooting death investigation."
During her 25 years as an assistant state attorney, Corey tried hundreds of cases, including more than 50 homicides.
In a written statement she provided in response to her detractors about the Fernandez case, Corey defended her decision to charge Fernandez as an adult by stating, "We are blessed in the 4th Circuit to have a great working relationship with ... public defenders," and "We asked for prayers for our two-year-old victim, David, and for Cristian Fernandez."
In discussing the investigation into the shooting death of Martin she said, "What we are asking people to do is take a step back.
And I look forward to meeting with them to try to help them on this journey.
Florida's law states that a person who is not engaged in an unlawful activity and who is attacked in any place where he or she has a right to be has no duty to retreat and has the right to stand his or her ground and meet force with force, including deadly force ... to prevent death or great bodily harm.
So even if Zimmerman killed Martin, he was justified in doing so if he believed he was in danger of being killed himself or of suffering great bodily harm.
Former Florida State Rep. Dennis Baxley, the co-sponsor of the law, told me by phone that the law doesn't apply to Zimmerman if he pursued Martin and was the initial aggressor.
He was unarmed.
Zimmerman tells the dispatcher he is following Martin.
Martin notices Zimmerman is following him and tells his girlfriend, Dee Dee, with whom he is on the phone.
Martin asks Zimmerman why he is following him.
The screams for help stop.
A tenet of our legal system is that when there is conflicting evidence, let a jury decide.
The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Sunny Hostin.