The bright-eyed teenager lives in a sepia-toned village in the province of Qena, a place of rural poverty and neglect.
"Teachers will show up and we'll be allowed to ask questions.
And as the government struggles to wade through the country's protracted political problems, Egypt's festering education system is orphaned -- even though, with a growing youth population, it's key to the country's future.
Meanwhile, a report by London think tank Chatham House says just $129 a year is spent on each Egyptian student; the United States, for example, spends 40 times as much.
Students and teachers seem to be on the verge of exhaustion rather than bursting with inspiration.
To make up for the gaps in education, millions of middle-class Egyptian families spend a large part of their income -- sometimes as much as 25% -- on private tutoring.
Public school teachers rarely make more than $300 a month.
Egypt's final secondary school exams are a rite of passage for students.
According to a recent World Bank report, the illiteracy rate for young people in Upper Egypt is 17%, higher than the national average of 11%, and the illiteracy rates for females is 24%, almost twice that of males.
Also, 70% of young women in Upper Egypt are jobless.
"This is a generation that desperately needs to learn how to critically think, to learn how to be in the 21st century," said Malak Zalouk, director of the Middle East Institute for Higher Education at the American University in Cairo.
This year, a few Egyptian entrepreneurs have launched Nafham, a Web-based startup that features crowd-sourced educational videos.
It divides the Egyptian public school curriculum into lessons that can be explained in 5- to 15-minute videos, covering all lessons mandated by the government curriculum.
Ramadan says she's running into problems, however, while trying to implement her idea.
"We could all stand around and protest that the government is failing us, or we could go out and offer the solutions," she said.
But until those solutions are offered, Asmaa -- and a whole generation in waiting -- will continue to linger near broken slides, daydreaming about the future.