"Andy Warhol: 15 Minutes Eternal," the first major retrospective of his work in China, recently arrived in Shanghai with the aim of acquainting the Chinese public with the artist who created some of the most famous paintings of the most iconic figure in the country's history.
"Mao was front-page news in America and that was often where Warhol got his biggest inspiration," said Eric Shiner, director of Pittsburgh's Andy Warhol Museum, which organized the exhibition.
His trip to Beijing was an unexpected byproduct of a visit to Hong Kong.
Artistic inspiration aside, China also provided Warhol with a respite from the pressures of fame.
"He was all about multiples...and at the time, China was the ultimate multiple," Makos said.
Many Chinese are familiar with certain Warhol works, such as the Marilyn Monroe or the Chairman Mao portraits, reproductions of which dot cafes and tourist markets across Beijing.
"If you don't know who Andy Warhol is, I won't blame you.
"One of the reasons why I wanted to do this show is so the general public can learn about the artist behind these iconic works and realize (Mao and Marilyn Monroe) are just a few of thousands of images he made," he said.
"The curiosity is greater than the awareness," said John Good, international director for post-war and contemporary art at Christie's, which is holding its second private sale of Warhol's work in Hong Kong this week.
While Shiner was planning the exhibition with the host venue -- the Shanghai Power Station of Art -- its staff advised that exhibiting the Mao works wasn't a "good idea right now."
While Shiner acknowledged the Mao portraits "could be read as a sarcastic or ironic portrayal", he said Warhol "definitely wasn't being critical.
Warhol's influence on Chinese contemporary art can actually be traced back to 1981, when many contemporary artists, labeled as dissidents, fled the country, Shiner said.
When you look at his Coca-Cola works, that's directly related to Warhol and it's really amazing how many things he picked up from Andy."
Ai and Xu aside, the Warhol aesthetic and vocabulary has deeply influenced Chinese contemporary artists over the past 10-15 years, with its characteristic combinations of social realist imagery with pop culture and iconic brands.
Maybe (the Chinese) don't know him, but they know his work," Makos said, predicting that Warhol "will get bigger and bigger in China."
CNN's Feng Ke contributed to this report.