The embodiment of the rule of law internationally has been the U.N. Charter and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights -- direct results of the devastation inflicted by the Nazi regime in Germany during the Second World War.
No one wanted a repeat of such flagrant aggression, so the Charter was drawn up to replace gunboat diplomacy with peaceful measures overseen by the U.N. Security Council.
Article 1 makes clear that the main purpose of the U.N. is to "maintain international peace and security and to that end to take effective collective measures for the prevention and removal of threats to the peace" and to act in accordance with justice and the principles of international law.
But this is not what happened 10 years ago at the behest of U.S. President George W. Bush and British Prime Minister Tony Blair.
getting in first) on the basis of a perceived future threat.
This argument, which was false, became the main basis for invasion because the only other route to war had been closed off by international law.
Tony Blair insisted to the British public that he would only support a war if a second Security Council resolution authorising the action was passed, but the resolution never came.
This was why Bush and Blair were not prepared to allow the weapons inspectors, who were in Iraq, any more time.
In the UK we are still waiting for the results of a public inquiry into the circumstances in which the decision to go to war was taken.
I believe George W. Bush and Tony Blair should be tried for war crimes as defined by international law.
Four transgressions were agreed -- war crimes, crimes against humanity, genocide, and the crime of aggression.
Whilst the act of aggression cannot be prosecuted, war crimes committed thereafter can be.
Getting U.S leaders hauled before the court is even more problematic -- the Security Council could refer Americans to the court, but the U.S. is a permanent Council member and can veto any potential referral.
The UK has such a provision, but when put to the test by UK citizens seeking arrest warrants in relation to the planned visits of Israeli political and military leaders -- who were potentially responsible for war crimes in Gaza -- the UK government reprehensibly placed impediments in the way of its future use.
It is time for Bush and Blair to be thoroughly, independently and judicially investigated for the crimes I suggest have been committed and it is time for the crime of aggression to come into force.