Diane Sims, who said she loves her brother, said she supports a proposal that would expand his visits to their mother's home in Williamsburg, Virginia, and might eventually allow him to live there as a full-time outpatient.
Sims said she has no worries that Hinckley would be a risk to others in Dallas.
She also said she thinks a move to Dallas would place Hinckley too far away from the medical experts who have cared for him for many years.
Hinckley was staying at the home of his sister and her husband in Dallas on October 13, 1980, when, according to testimony in his 1982 trial, he went to a pawn shop to buy two .22-caliber revolvers, one of which he used to shoot Reagan and the others five months later.
The gun purchase was not mentioned in court Tuesday, and the government has not said it would be more dangerous for Hinckley to live in Dallas than anywhere else.
The hospital's recommendation for Hinckley's eventual release on convalescent leave asks the judge to allow Hinckley to live full time in Williamsburg "at the discretion of the hospital" once the eight longer visits have been completed successfully.
If the judge were to grant convalescent leave at the hospital's discretion at the end of the eight longer visits now requested, it would be unlikely to happen until at least the fall of 2012, since as the filing requires a minimum two-week interval between each of the new visits.
Sims often spends time in Williamsburg when Hinckley is there and drives him back to St. Elizabeths.
Under questioning, Sims acknowledged the family does not permit a woman identified in court only as CB to visit the Hinckley home.
Sims said that is the case.
But she said all the members were in their mid-70s and her brother would not have fit in.
Sims said that when her brother goes out in the community he usually has no problems with people who recognize him.
According to a report by Secret Service agents who were watching Hinckley without his knowledge, on one outing last July, Hinckley did not attend a movie and instead went to a bookstore where he passed by an aisle of books that included an account of the day Reagan was shot.
Hinckley's sister said she had accompanied him to bookstores and never saw him look at any books like that.
Sims was asked if she ever noticed Secret Service agents keeping an eye on Hinckley.
Sims said the agent asked the Hinckley family's location and requested that they wait for him to catch up.
CNN's James Polk contributed to this report.