(CNN) -- Former U.S. Sen. Arlen Specter, who embodied a vanishing breed of liberal Republicanism before switching to the Democratic Party at the twilight of his political career, died Sunday after a long battle with cancer, his family announced.
He had been in the public eye since serving as a member of the Warren Commission, which investigated the assassination of President John F. Kennedy.
And his name is synonymous with Pennsylvania, an idiosyncratic state that pushes and pulls between the two parties, and his home, the staunchly Democratic city of Philadelphia.
"From his days stamping out corruption as a prosecutor in Philadelphia to his three decades of service in the Senate, Arlen was fiercely independent -- never putting party or ideology ahead of the people he was chosen to serve," Obama said in a written statement on Specter's death.
"There isn't any doubt in many respects he was an unusual politician," Madonna said.
...
"The last thing you would have thought about Arlen Specter was that he was born in Kansas," Madonna said.
He grew up in Russell, Kansas, also the hometown of another Republican icon, a one-time presidential nominee and senator, Bob Dole.
He earned a bachelor's degree in international relations in 1951 from the University of Pennsylvania, in Philadelphia, where he graduated Phi Beta Kappa.
After Yale, he started practicing law and became an assistant district attorney in Philadelphia.
Specter ran for the U.S. Senate in 1976, but he was defeated in the Republican primary by John Heinz.
He served on the Senate Judiciary Committee, of which he was chairman from 2005 to 2007.
And he was a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee.
"No member of Congress shaped the Supreme Court more than he did," Madonna said.
He criticized Republicans for President Bill Clinton's impeachment and voted in favor of the Iraq war.
Despite his longtime membership in the Republican Party, Specter became more alienated from the party as it grew more conservative.
But in 2010, when he ran for re-election, Specter lost the Democratic primary to Rep. Joe Sestak.
After the loss, Specter moved from the halls of Congress to those of academia, taking on a new role at the University of Pennsylvania Law School as an adjunct professor.
"From his role in sinking Robert Bork's Supreme Court nomination to his cross-examination of Anita Hill, from stem-cell research to the impeachment of Bill Clinton, Specter's greatest talent may be his unique ability to put himself -- somehow, some way -- in the center of the nation's most important debates," the article said.