(CNN) -- The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers could open the Morganza Spillway as early as Saturday, Louisiana Gov.
The Mississippi River Commission has advised a "slow opening," and the flood would spread gradually over several days, the Corps said.
The National Guard worked around the clock to construct a flood barrier in Morgan City, Louisiana, where the Atchafalaya River was already 3.15 feet above flood stage, according to the National Weather Service.
Officials believe that the levees will protect the city from flooding, but some are taking preliminary precautions, she said.
Meanwhile, in the Arkansas town of Helena, the river crested at 56.5 feet -- 12.5 feet above flood stage, according to the National Weather Service.
To help New Orleans, the Army Corps of Engineers said Friday that it will open 52 more bays at the Bonnet Carre Spillway just north of the city, diverting water into Lake Pontchartrain.
The National Weather Service said that as of Friday morning, the river was at 16.8 feet in New Orleans, just a fraction below flood stage.
The river was expected to crest at 57.5 feet.
Homes that were built between the levee and the Mississippi River were the first affected.
The backwater levee is designed to keep water from backing into the Yazoo River delta and is designed lower than the mainline levee so that water can flow over it.
Across the South and lower Midwest, floodwaters have covered about 3 million acres of farmland, eroding for many farmers what could have been a profitable year for corn, wheat, rice and cotton, officials said.
That includes the possibility that the Waterford 3 nuclear power plant in Taft, Louisiana, could be closed, according to CNN affiliate WGNO.
The Mississippi River is expected to crest at 26.6 feet in Taft on May 23.
Danny Moore of Millington, Tennessee, told CNN affiliate WPTY that the recent disaster marked the second time in one year that flooding took away nearly everything he had.
Moore said that after a flood destroyed all of his furniture last year, he decided to move everything he owned into rented storage space.
CNN's Mariano Castillo, Mia Aquino and Erica Henry contributed to this report.