(CNN) -- The small, World War II-era plane that crashed Friday during a Reno, Nevada, air race was equipped with data and video recording devices that investigators hope to use to help determine what happened and why.
"I'm not aware of a lot of aircraft having it, this is the first one I came across," said Howard Plagens, who is the NTSB official heading the investigation.
Besides the cards, Rosekind said parts of a plane's tail, an "elevator trim tab" and video camera fragments have been found.
As with the memory cards, one of the authorities' first goals will be to determine if these came from the plane being piloted by 74-year-old Jimmy Leeward.
Besides the plane's trim tab, parts of a tail, the memory cards and already known plane data, investigators also will pore over "a tremendous (amount of) video that was captured" at the scene, according to Rosekind.
Besides Leeward, the dead include Michael Joseph Wogan, a 22-year-old from Phoenix who was attending the event with his father as part of a father-and-son vacation, his family said in a statement.
Michael Wogan graduated magna cum laude from Arizona State University with a finance degree in May, his family said.
The Hewitts were killed when the plane crashed into the seating area, said R.D.
According to its website, the squadron aims to "promote and encourage the preservation and operation of World War II and other such aircraft that are representative of military aviation operations" along with educating people on safely operating and maintaining such aircraft.
He went down around 4:15 p.m. PT Friday while taking part in a qualifying round in the "unlimited class" division of the air race, said Mike Draper, the show spokesman.
One local hospital, Renown Medical Center, received 34 patients, four of whom were in critical condition as of Sunday afternoon.
St. Mary's Hospital in Reno said it had accepted 28 patients from the accident: As of Sunday afternoon, two were in critical condition and six in serious condition.