Officers sent to check on Paul Ciancia's welfare arrived at his apartment less than an hour after the shooting started, police said Monday.
According to someone who knew Ciancia and his three roommates well, Ciancia began asking for a ride to the airport days before the shooting.
On Friday, Ciancia burst into a roommate's room and demanded a ride to the airport immediately, said the source, who spoke to CNN on the condition of anonymity.
Around the same time, Ciancia was sending text messages to family members in Pennsville, New Jersey.
It sounded as if Paul Ciancia in California was thinking about harming himself, so obviously I knew I needed to make a phone call to the LAPD," Pennsville Police Chief Allen Cummings told CNN's Jake Tapper on Monday.
Andy Smith says police were first called to check on Ciancia at 10:06 a.m. Officers arrived at his apartment six minutes later, according to Smith.
He said police had arrived at Ciancia's apartment about 45 minutes after the suspect had left for the airport.
He pulled a .223-caliber assault rifle from a bag and shot TSA officer Gerardo Hernandez "at point-blank range," according to a court document filed by an FBI agent.
"He took pride in his duty for the American public and for the TSA mission," said his wife, Ana Hernandez.
Two other TSA officers -- James Speer, 54, and Tony Grigsby, 36 -- were wounded but were released from the hospital.
So it was airport police officers who eventually shot Ciancia multiple times in the chest, also striking him in the face and neck.
Airport Police Chief Patrick Gannon said the FBI told him that his officers were 60 seconds behind Ciancia.
Holder said Monday that the investigation will include a review of security measures at LAX and other airports.
On Saturday, an additional 40 flights were affected, including 30 that were canceled, involving about 4,000 passengers, according to Los Angeles International Airport.
"It is most important for us as a family to express our deep and sincere sympathy to the Hernandez family," the Ciancia family said.
The Ciancia family said they would "continue to love and care for" Paul.
While we do not mean to minimize the grief and distress experienced by many other families, we hope that the public will understand that this is a very difficult time for our family, too," the family said.
TSA Administrator John Pistole said the shooting has prompted a review of security protocol with partner agencies.