After emerging from the showdown over the Republican-led government shutdown relatively unscathed, the Obama administration finds itself under assault on three fronts: problems surrounding Obamacare, the revelations of the U.S. spying on allies, and the 2012 attack on the U.S diplomatic compound in Benghazi, Libya, the latter for which a senator has threatened to hold up all of the Obama administration's nominations.
The worst part for Obama may be figuring out what to do about it all -- not just the various individual fires, but more generally how to "take control of his own government," CNN chief political analyst Gloria Borger said.
If you're the President, how do you make sure that subordinates aren't withholding information you should know?
She offered the apology Tuesday in an appearance before the House Ways and Means Committee.
Then, the White House found itself on the defensive over revelations that, despite claims to the contrary by the Obama administration, some who have purchased insurance on the open market will lose their coverage and have to buy new policies.
White House spokesman Jay Carney argued Monday the administration has always said some health care plans would not meet new Obamacare requirements.
"If you like your health care plan, you can keep your health care plan," the president said in 2009, and frequently since.
"The larger problem is how Obamacare is hurting people out there," Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell said Tuesday.
Rep. Peter King, the Republican chairman of the House Subcommittee on Counterterrorism and Intelligence, was incredulous that the president didn't know what was going on.
And Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-California, said not knowing about the program was a "big problem" for both Obama and the Senate Intelligence Committee, which she chairs.
Senate rules allow a single senator to at least temporarily hold up presidential nominations, and Graham says he will do so until the administration makes survivors of the attack available for congressional testimony.
CNN's Ted Barrett, Catherine E. Shoichet, Jake Tapper, Jim Sciutto, Elise Labott, Brooke Baldwin and Jim Acosta contributed to this report.