"I had no idea what to expect," said Hentschel, who spent two weeks in Iran after booking the trip through a private tour operator and applying for a visa.
And with news of the arrest of three American backpackers, along with the June election riots and government crackdown, Iran may be an even harder sell, some travel companies said.
Officials at the U.S. Department of State say travel warnings have been implemented on Iran since the hostage crisis in 1979, when militants captured 52 American diplomats and staff.
U.S. passports are valid for travel to Iran and visas are required to enter the country, according to the State Department Web site.
Last week, three Americans were detained after crossing into northern Iran during a hiking trip.
The two men and one woman, said to be seasoned travelers, began their trip in Turkey and went into Iraq before crossing the unmarked border into Iran.
Mudhafer Mohammed, owner of the Miwan Hotel, told CNN that the hikers said they had come to the area because they heard it was safe.
Pauline Frommer, creator of the Pauline Frommer's Travel Guides, said it's  safer when visiting countries in conflict to use travel companies and tour operators that rely on local accommodations and guides.
The project cleared up misconceptions about Iran and sparked Americans' interest in traveling there, travel experts said.
Spiekermann Travel Service, Inc., one of the oldest travel agencies that specializes in Iranian travel, has booked more than 350 tours to the country since it began operating there in 1995.
Spiekermann's bi-annual trips to Iran, limited to 14 travelers, usually sell out.
Far Horizons Archaeological & Cultural Trips, Inc. in San Anselmo, California planned a second trip to Iran for October after their first trip in May sold out.
"Those three Americans made a mistake, but with us, it's very different.
Barbara Bailey, a 73-year-old from rural Ohio, went on a two-week vacation to Iran last April with a tour group.
If travelers can't afford to spend between $6,000 and $10,000 on organized excursions of  two or three weeks and decide to backpack, they still need to follow the rules, said Jon Dorn, editor in chief of Backpackers Magazine.
CNN's Arwa Damon contributed to this report.