"And by coincidence, I have one in the shape of South Carolina," the Kentucky Republican said Wednesday, drawing laughs.
As Paul blitzed across the Hawkeye State this week, holding events at Iowa GOP offices and campaigning for local candidates, he hardly played coy to the question of whether he was running for President.
His combative answer to a reporter's question -- combined with video of Paul appearing to avoid an immigration activist — absorbed most of the attention surrounding his visit.
Asked if he still supported phasing out foreign aid to Israel, Paul fired back at a reporter for "mischaracterizing" his position and staunchly denied that he had ever proposed such legislation.
In Iowa, Paul stressed that he never introduced legislation that solely "targeted" Israel and argued that he strongly favors sending money to the country.
Paul said he was stepping away to do interviews with local media.
You have social conservatives in Iowa who very much feel the need to be in solidarity with Israel -- not just Christian conservatives, but it's also national security conservatives."
While Paul has voted in favor of sending more aid to Israel this year and has proposed cutting off aid to the Palestinians, his past statements and views on foreign policy are rooted in his libertarian leanings — a perspective still largely outside of mainstream Republican thought.
In the 2012 Iowa caucuses, former Rep. Ron Paul of Texas finished with 21% of the vote, just slightly behind Romney and former Sen. Rick Santorum — who tied for first at 25%.
Mainstream Republicans, with the support of Iowa Gov.
As seen in his trip this week, he's going after the state's social conservatives and business Republicans, too.
At each stop, Paul's main message sought to counter post-2012 perceptions that the Republican Party should change its message.
It's a mantra he has repeated in his travels across the country this year.
In Northwest Iowa, home to many of the state's social conservatives, Paul placed an evangelical spin on his message.
Asked whether he supported a constitutional amendment banning same-sex marriage, Paul said he "favors the concept" of traditional marriage but argued the federal government should stay out marriage entirely.
"To function in Iowa he's going to have to address the concerns of conservative evangelicals because Marco Rubio and Ted Cruz are going to do that," he said.
Paul left Iowa before this weekend's annual summit hosted by the Family Leader, a group that's influential with social conservatives in the state.
Paul said he couldn't make it due to a scheduling conflict.