He knew his father was behind him on the Khumbu Icefall and ran down the mountain, only to find the devastation of ice, snow and baggage scattered everywhere.
Ang Tshiring, 57, was a high altitude cook.
Ang Tshiring was famous for always showing happiness.
His son Pemba, 37, lives with the family in Thamo, a small village of 50 souls located in the Thame Valley in the Khumbu, where the country's greatest ethnic Sherpa climbers live, well off the beaten track of Nepal's Everest Base Camp trail.
Few tourists pass by and yak herding is an insufficient way to make a living.
Thousands of colorful flags flutter in clusters, offering prayers to be carried along by the wind.
"All that matters now are the puja," says Ang Riku, his widow, referring to a series of prayers and rituals.
Ang Riku is concerned.
Ang Riku and Ang Tshiring's private quarters have been transformed into a prayer room, and we all sleep together on the floor of the main hall.
Ang Riku climbs the yak trails with determination, stopping every few minutes to catch her breath.
We politely decline, but the lama insists and we accept.
Then Ang Riku offers money for the lama to perform the puja.
Next, Ang Riku prepares a copper plate full of rice, the equivalent of $30, and a ceremonial white scarf that the lama will use for the prayers.
It's an emotional moment, the only time Ang Riku lets her emotions overtake her.
Ang Riku also sends bags with salt, butter, rice and money to 500 families in the valley, so they'll recite prayers for Ang Tshiring.
Ang Riku says she had to ask for a loan at the market at an interest rate of 25% per year -- she doesn't have the collateral to borrow from banks.
"Every time I go on a climbing expedition, I wonder if I will come back alive," says Pemba.
Though more catastrophic than usual, this year's tragedy was no great surprise for those in the Thame Valley, who have become familiar the loss of life that almost always occurs in April and May.
I offer a puja in the monastery for Ang Tshiring in the afternoon and ask Lopsang, a young monk who says he escaped from Tibet, the reason behind the bad luck.