I spent much of my time in line for the next ride of the day, the Batman roller coaster, reading about the potential for roller coaster deaths and accidents.
Pecking through roller coaster news on my phone that day, before the death in Texas had been reported, I learned, among other things, that it was reported that a 45-year-old died after passing out and having an apparent heart attack on Goliath, the ride that made my eye briefly malfunction.
I think this is partly why so many are shocked and saddened by the death of Rosy Esparza, who fell, according to a witness who spoke with CNN affiliate WFAA, from the Texas Giant roller coaster at Six Flags in Arlington, Texas.
Six Flags said in a statement that safety is paramount.
After Esparza's death, Sen. Ed Markey, the Democrat from Massachusetts who recently took the seat vacated by John Kerry, has reportedly renewed his call for federal oversight of roller coaster inspection.
Tracy Mehan, from the Center for Injury Research and Policy at Nationwide Children's Hospital in Columbus, Ohio, said that relatively little is known about the prevalence of roller coaster injuries and deaths because the federal government doesn't enforce safety inspections and investigations.
As the National Review put it this year, "Americans are 5,000 times more likely to be legally executed by their own government than to die on a roller coaster."
But that framing is misleading, given how little is known about national roller coaster injuries.
After looking at injuries that were treated in hospitals from 1990 to 2010, the group found that a child is hospitalized from an injury related to an amusement park, carnival, fair or arcade-type ride once every three days in the summer, Mehan said.
Regardless of the stats, however, it's the joy-gone-wrong factor that makes roller coaster deaths particularly horrifying.
Maybe.
Roller coaster fans should support a review of safety requirements.
The opinions expressed in this column are solely those of John D. Sutter.