A woman is in the hospital after she was mauled by a bear while walking in her central Florida neighborhood on Monday.
Tom Shupe thinks black bears have a people problem.
Instead of scaring it away, too many people say: "Oh, isn't he cute.
But it's the beginning of the end for that bear, because the people are teaching it to associate the smell of people with food.
The people call 911: "Do something about your bear."
But the bear has learned people equals food, and does it again.
People say our conflicts with wild creatures are our fault because we encroached on their habitat.
Why?
We put out all sorts of food for them: lawns, gardens, shrubbery, birdseed, grill grease, garbage, dumpster waste.
Instead, we demonize elegant creatures and fight over what to do, or not to do, about too much of a good thing.
Over the last century and half, forests grew back on abandoned farmland; a century ago we ended commercial hunting and began restoring wild bird and animal populations.
We've become forest people -- yet we spend 90% of our time indoors.
There we get most of our nature on digital screens, where wild creatures are often portrayed as pets performing all sorts of antics.
What this means is that in just the last few decades, for the first time in 11,000 years, huge swaths of the whitetail's historic range -- the Eastern United States -- have been put off-limits to its biggest predators.
Estimates say about 100 people die in hunting accidents, mainly in cases of mistaken identity.
These days, deer kill more than twice that many, both in deer-vehicle crashes and when drivers swerve into a tree or an oncoming vehicle.
Black bears are shy and docile creatures motivated by hunger and fear, but they, like deer, beavers, turkeys, waterfowl and others, were almost wiped out in the United States by the end of the 19th century.
Between 1900 and 2009, black bears killed 63 people -- 86% were in the last 40 years.
It isn't.
Nuisance wildlife control people say tossing rocks at coyotes would help reinstill their fear of people.
Conflicts between people and wild animals will continue to rise as both populations grow into one another.
Reinstilling their fear will help.