George W. Bush, a fellow Texas Republican, ran for and won the presidency in 2000 and served two terms, the lawmaker told CNN.
Even if he served four years, then maybe.
The path to the presidency is especially challenging for Republican women and it contrasts sharply with Democrats who -- as buzz grows around Hillary Clinton -- may be poised to nominate the first female presidential candidate of either major party.
But when mention is made of Gov.
"Women should naturally be considered for the highest office in the land," Snowe said.
In each of the past 10 election cycles, GOP women have won a smaller percentage of primary elections for U.S. House seats than have their Democratic counterparts, according to a study by Rutgers University's Center for American Women and Politics, and only twice -- in 1994 and 2010 -- have more Republican than Democratic women run in primaries.
SarahPAC, the political action committee of former Alaska governor and 2008 GOP vice presidential candidate Sarah Palin, has supported a number of conservative women candidates, including New Hampshire's Ayotte in 2010.
The other challenge female candidates to federal office face is an "ideological shift to the far right among the Republican primary electorate," the study found.
The Republican Party is keenly aware of its problems in both recruiting and supporting female candidates and attracting women voters.
But some senior Republican women say that despite plenty of lip service paid to elevating women within the party, representation at the federal level is paltry, and the performance trend in primaries shows fewer Republican women are winning in those races than just two decades ago.
"The Republican Party hasn't done the groundwork to build a strong bench of Republican women to launch a presidential candidacy."
Hutchison said.
"That makes it harder for us to say, 'Yes, I'm going to run for president and go to New Hampshire, Iowa, and South Carolina for weeks on end' -- especially if they are in office already and away from their families.
"Republican women have to do what Hillary Clinton is doing.
... She's a good example of a case study for how women should model their efforts for running for office."