But as gay baby boomers find more acceptance in mainstream society and continue to do what they've always done -- push to make a better world for the LGBT community -- their retirement options are slowly improving.
"Because I run a business, as I get older I can change the intensity of my engagement in the kinds of work I take on," Witeck said.
Even if they did have the benefit of a partner to help as their health declined, they faced extra burdens their straight counterparts did not have.
Without federal marriage equality, gay couples -- no matter how long they've been together -- cannot inherit each other's Social Security benefits, even if they were legally married in the handful of states that allow it.
Witeck said his retirement plans and those of his friends are nothing like those of their fathers' generation.
"Over time he did get a little discouraged because he felt like he didn't have a purpose, but that's what the people he knew did," Witeck said.
"I do know, as we age, our health can fail, and I've seen it with some friends who aren't as sharp as they once were.
But often retirement-age people do need help, and that has not always been easy for the LGBT community.
His organization, SAGE, has been working to change the situation for older LGBT people since 1978.
While there still isn't federal recognition of marriage for gay couples, the federal Pension Protection Act of 2006 allowed a rollover option to nonspousal beneficiaries.
This year the Administration on Aging -- the federal agency responsible for funding programs that help the elderly -- finally issued guidance saying agencies and programs it funds should recognize the LGBT population among those with "the greatest social need."
Among the LGBT Elder Americans Act's proposals is an amendment that would permanently establish the National Resource Center on LGBT Aging, which would provide training to providers of services to the elderly around the country.
"While the laws have become more accepting of marriage equality of the LGBT community and nondiscrimination policies in a broader sense are more inclusive, that doesn't mean people who work with the elderly automatically become more accepting," said Laurie Young, director of aging and economic security with the National Gay and Lesbian Task Force.
"LGBT people want to experience the services and programs that exist for all older people," Adams said.
Even changing the decorations can help.
Even in the short time that SAGE has been conducting its training, it has seen a difference, Adams said.
Witeck said he hopes he will never need those support services, but if he does, he's confident his generation will continue to make them more accessible to the LGBT community.
"And I imagine it will get that much better for all of us, so LGBT people won't have to live in fear when they do need the help."
How has LGBT life changed over the years?