CARL AZUZ, CNN STUDENT NEWS ANCHOR: I'm Carl Azuz and you're watching CNN Student News!
Bringing you stories from all over the U.S. today, and we start things off in Colorado.
Planes, like the one you see here, are dropping fire retardant, chemicals that are used to try to put out the fires.
This storm made landfall near Brownsville.
And in the southern part of the state, Hermine threatened what are called "storm surges."
TOMEKA JONES, CNN STUDENT NEWS: Just the facts.
Terry Jones, the church's pastor, says the protest is aimed at Islamic extremists, not at all Muslims.
TERRY JONES, CHURCH PASTOR, DOVE WORLD OUTREACH: We feel that the message that we are trying to send is much more important than people being offended.
As religious leaders in this great country, we have come together in our nation's capital to denounce categorically the derision, misinformation and outright bigotry being directed against America's Muslim community.
We've put up a post on our blog at CNNStudentNews.com where you can talk this story, you can talk about how you feel about it.
Worldwide, one out of every 10 adults is illiterate.
It's designed to raise awareness about literacy needs around the world.
In Japan, one principal is running his school like a business.
KYUNG LAH, CNN CORRESPONDENT, TOKYO: The school day begins at Wada Junior High with drills; math drills, as fast as these kids can do them.
Principal Akihisa Shirota believes it so much, he joins the students.
"Principals are people who became teachers right after graduating from college," says Shirota.
He runs the school more like a corporation; students, his workers.
SHIROTA: All of them.
LAH "He's different," says a student.
It's 6:40 in the evening and students are still here at Wada Junior High School.
Critics call this too tough for a public school, but Shirota says the old must give way to new thinking.
AZUZ: Well, it is time for our first field trip of the school year: Off the Beaten Path.
Just arm yourself for a battle of the biceps!
For some, it's all in the wrist.
AZUZ: But we're not still talking about arm wrestling.
AZUZ: But if a "haybale obstacle course" isn't your speed, saddle up for a one-wheeled whirl across the Brooklyn Bridge!
So without a wheel, why not just turn yourself around at a Hawkeye State Hokey Pokey?
To get this many people over age 8 to participate, you must be trying to set a record.
AZUZ: A world record is always cool, even if group dances are a little hokey.
Have a great one.