Alice Schroeder says investor Warren Buffett has become a symbol of stability in American business.
Alice Schroeder got Buffett's cooperation in writing her new book, "The Snowball: Warren Buffett and the Business of Life" (Bantam Books).
Schroeder estimates she spent about 2,000 hours with Buffett and interviewed 250 people for the book.
I got to sit in his office for weeks, I ate steaks with him," says Schroeder, who's 51.
What he really likes to do is run Berkshire Hathaway, and he's not going to let anything take him away from that.
CNN: You make clear that in the 1990s tech boom, Wall Street turned away from Buffett and there was some criticism of him.
...
Schroeder: He would say that human nature doesn't change, and that fear and greed are always the two drivers of the market.
He always says, don't sell into a panic, don't let the fear and the emotions of the market change how you feel.
...
Schroeder: No, he's a handicapper -- big difference.
Schroeder: He is somebody who can be very tough in business and very impersonal, including with people he likes.
The book refers to him, in my words, as a great white shark, and the book describes the battle between his avarice and his higher principles.
It's been pretty much uphill from there, but it hasn't been a straight line.
He was criticizing Wall Street and saying if you want to make a lot of money, hold your nose and go to Wall Street, and at the same time he was already there.
Schroeder: You've got an economy in which financial intermediaries who don't add anything to the economy ... have in the past two decades stripped off huge amounts of fees, particularly buyout funds, and hedge funds and funds of funds, and he's very, very critical of the amount of fees that have been taken out.
And he's pointed out that these people are not like major league baseball players, who get recruited away by other teams.
Schroeder: That people should think for the long run and make their personal decisions for the long run and build a margin of safety into their lives as best they can.
Think about what could go wrong.