(CNN) -- It would take you almost five solid months -- without sleeping or bathroom breaks -- to watch every sporting event at this year's Summer Olympics.
After years of tape-delayed broadcasts and online video, NBC has caught on that viewers want to follow the Olympics on multiple devices in real time, and is offering the live options in addition to its regular television programming.
They can sign up for cable and cancel after the games are over, but there's no one-time payment option just to access live streaming.
NBC wants mobile and online options to complement the TV coverage, not replace it.
The site is also providing live streams of any sport to cable, satellite or telco TV subscribers.
Called LiveExtra, the service will live stream some Olympic trials and every single Olympic sport.
You can also download one of the official apps to watch official NBC Olympic video on your iOS or Android device.
NBC Olympics Live Extra app is a mobile version of its LiveExtra online service and requires a cable, satellite or telco subscription.
Official London 2012: Results App has live updates of results, as well as schedules, news, background on sports and athlete profiles.
The free BBC Olympic iOS and Android app will have a steady stream of quality Olympics news, including a running tally of medals won and live reporting from the BBC journalists attending events.
You can narrow it down to just the events you're interested in and follow those feeds (say @L2012Trampoline or @L2012Judo), or keep an eye on all of them at once by following the London 2012 official Twitter list of automated feeds.
There's also an official London 2012 Facebook page you can like to get updates.
There are 21,000 journalists in London covering the Olympics (outnumbering the 10,500 athletes competing).
If you don't have cable, you can still tune into NBC over the air for nearly round-the-clock coverage, including the four-hour prime-time broadcast that will show the most popular events mixed in with the usual profiles and athlete interviews.