We're much more than 'hallelujah' people.
Wilfredo De Jesus wants his message heard loud and clear: Evangelical Latino Protestants in the United States are more relevant than ever.
"In the last 10 years, you've seen this bloc of people has grown.
The door is the most open to Republican candidates and the Republican Party, Jones said.
"Evangelicals have the most affinity for the Republican Party.
And (Latinos) haven't seen our people rejoice for quite some time," he said.
We've let a handful of people in our party, that have made some unfortunate statements, control the party's message," Garcia said.
The 38-year-old attorney and lifelong Republican said that as the son of Mexican immigrants, "it's disappointing as a Latino when you hear people making ignorant statements (in the party).
Immigration ... it's a preeminent issue for us," said the Rev.
Much like his friend De Jesus, Salguero believes that Latino evangelicals are the key to victory for any politician.
Both Salguero and De Jesus were advisers to President Barack Obama on the immigration issue.
"Barack flipped on us," De Jesus said.
It's only right for the Republicans to say, 'let's win back this Latino bloc, at least the evangelicals.'
The Hispanic Values Survey showed that while there is "dissatisfaction" among Latino voters with the Democratic Party on issues like record deportation numbers under Obama, there is "distrust" of the Republican Party within the Latino community.
"
The 31-year-old said the focus for the Republicans in winning more Latino votes should be on the economy, whether they are courting evangelical Protestants or others in the community.
Right now, that's jobs and unemployment," Ballori said.
Though the issue of immigration reform was ranked high among the concerns of Latino voters, it was in a four-way tie for the third most important issue behind the economy and affordable health care, according to Public Religion Research Institute research.
Our message should be one of inclusion," Garcia said.