Los Angeles (CNN) -- A former Los Angeles cop with military training vowed war against other men in blue Thursday, leaving one officer dead days after he allegedly killed two other people to begin a wave of retribution for being fired, police said.
"My opinion of the suspect is unprintable," said Riverside police Chief Sergio Diaz, hours after one of his officers was killed.
In Torrance, LAPD officers guarding one of Dorner's alleged targets mistakenly opened fire on a blue pickup truck that resembled one Dorner was thought to be driving, said Los Angeles police Chief Charlie Beck.
Torrance police also fired on another blue pickup, but no one was injured in that incident, according to a senior law enforcement source.
We trained him," Beck said.
Police confirmed that the vehicle, which was burnt out when it was found, belonged to Dorner by its vehicle identification number, San Bernardino County Sheriff John McMahon said.
It all started Sunday when Dorner allegedly killed two people in Irvine, according to police.
In his manifesto, Dorner said Quan handled his appeal.
Dorner likely had access to the hotel because he'd been honorably discharged from the Navy Reserve, said the Navy spokesman.
Someone later found a wallet containing Dorner's identification and an LAPD detective's badge near the San Diego airport, according to police.
There, a pair of LAPD officers on a protection detail were flagged down by a citizen who reported seeing the suspect's vehicle, LAPD Deputy Chief Jose Perez said.
The other officer, 27, was "seriously wounded but we expect a full recovery," the Riverside police chief said.
A good Samaritan picked up one of their police radios and called dispatchers to send help, Riverside police said.
The package also contained a coin wrapped in duct tape.
Bratton headed the LAPD at the time Dorner was dismissed.
Two weeks later, Dorner accused his training officer of kicking the man after he'd given up.
Dorner challenged his firing for years, losing at every turn.
Beck, the Los Angeles police chief, said Thursday that Dorner's case had been "thoroughly reviewed" and said the department would not apologize to Dorner or clear his name.
"It's extremely, extremely manpower intensive," Beck said.
CNN's AnneClaire Stapleton, Sara Weisfeldt, Barbara Starr, Pete Janos, Mallory Simon and Deanna Hackney contributed to this report.