That contradiction -- with Sybrina Fulton insisting it was her son, Trayvon, who cried out, while Gladys Zimmerman said it was her son, George, who was yelling after being attacked by the teen -- was central to Friday's court proceedings, and central to the second-degree murder case unfolding in central Florida.
Why?
"I haven't heard him like that before," she said as her son wiped away tears in the courtroom.
"You certainly hope, as a mom, that your son Trayvon Martin would not have done anything that led to his death, correct?"
More than a year ago, the tale of what happened between Trayvon Martin and George Zimmerman captured the nation's attention and shone a spotlight on gun laws as well as race -- given that Martin is African-American, while Zimmerman is Hispanic.
They called to the stand the 911 dispatcher who told Zimmerman not to follow Martin, though he did anyway.
She testified that she'd heard Martin call out, "Why are you following me for?"
He told CNN's Brooke Baldwin on Friday night that "once the jury decides who was screaming for help (on the 911 call), if they can, I think everything else falls in line."
But so does Gladys Zimmerman of her own son, the defense lawyer says, arguing that "all the other evidence would suggest" that the screaming voice is indeed that of George Zimmerman.
Sybrina Fulton and Gladys Zimmerman weren't the only members of their respective families to take the stand Friday.
Jahvaris Fulton, Martin's older brother, testified Friday morning about the voice on the 911 call.
The other highlight of Friday's court proceedings was the testimony of Voluscia and Seminole County associate medical examiner Shiping Bao.
In testimony that at times turned contentious, Bao also said Martin did not die right away after the gunshot.
Prepared notes that Bao was reading from also drew West's attention.
When asked about them, Bao said, "I typed out potential answers to your potential questions."
West argued that the prosecution knew about these changes but didn't tell the defense.
Late in Friday's court proceedings, O'Mara made his pitch for acquittal -- arguing that Zimmerman acted in self-defense; there was no direct evidence of ill will, hatred or spite surrounding Martin's killing; and that it was still unclear who could be heard screaming on the 911 call.