Dolphins coach Joe Philbin suspended Incognito on Sunday night.
Incognito said he didn't want to comment on media reports that he sent line-mate Jonathan Martin voice mails containing racial slurs and threats of physical violence.
ESPN, NFL.com and other media outlets reported that representatives for Martin on Sunday submitted the voice mails and texts to the league and the Dolphins.
I'll (expletive) in your (expletive) mouth.
Philbin told reporters on Monday he made the decision to suspend Incognito "based on the information that I had at that time."
Also Tuesday, celebrity gossip website TMZ posted a video of Incognito at a bar, shouting at the top of his lungs while pacing wildly around a pool table topless.
Philbin said Martin left the team after an incident at the team's cafeteria.
Several media outlets said Martin had left the Dolphins because of bullying, something Incognito denied on Twitter.
Philbin said he met with Martin and also talked with members of his family before Sunday, and the second-year player didn't say anything about player misconduct.
The Miami Herald reported that a Dolphins source said Incognito is "done" with the team.
The Sporting News takes a yearly poll of NFL players, and in 2009 they dubbed Incognito the dirtiest player in the league.
The NFL will review the case, league spokesman Greg Aiello said Monday.
Dolphins rookie Will Davis said he hasn't experienced any acts of bullying or hazing.
"I think a lot of people think of hazing as being cruel, but I don't see anything like that in this locker room," he said.
"I know both of those guys personally," he said.
He said when Incognito joined the team, he would test people to see where he stood with them.
"He is a guy that needs to know his place with you," Crowder said.
Still, former Dolphins running back Ricky Williams said it occurs less frequently in the NFL than most people think.
I don't think the media, I don't think fans, I don't think anyone outside is really in a position to really fully understand what occurs inside of a locker room and inside of a football team."