Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia (CNN) -- The search for missing Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 resumed Sunday, but stormy weather may cause problems, the Australian Maritime Safety Authority said.
Eight ships will join the search by the end of the day, including the Australian Ocean Shield, which will be fitted with a "black box" detector and an autonomous underwater vehicle, AMSA said.
Eight planes and a number of ships scoured some 97,000 square miles of water Saturday for signs of the plane, with aircraft reporting sightings of objects similar to those reported Friday, the Australian Maritime Safety Authority said.
Crew members aboard a Chinese plane dropped buoys to mark three suspected debris sites, China's state-run CCTV reported.
Then within around three minutes, we found a stripe-shaped object.
But Saturday, a Malaysian official met with relatives and then told reporters he had not closed the door on the hope of relatives that survivors may exist among the 239 people aboard the Boeing 777-200 ER that went missing March 8.
When a briefing for them was not held Saturday, the Chinese relatives said they were deterred from attending a briefing for Maylasian relatives.
"The plane is still there, too!
"What they want is a commitment on our part to continue the search, and that I have given," Hishammuddin said.
On Saturday that meant hunting again for plane debris in an ocean awash in debris -- including odds and ends from passing ships -- in hopes that among it are pieces of the jet.
After the latest data analysis, experts says they believe that Malaysia Airlines Flight 370, which disappeared three weeks ago, ended up in the southern Indian Ocean.
Ships plowed the waters of the search area and eight planes searched from above.
CNN's Kyung Lah, who went out on a U.S. Navy P-8 search plane Friday, said its crew spotted white objects, orange rope and a blue bag.
It started in the South China Sea between Malaysia and Vietnam, where the plane went out of contact with air traffic controllers.
Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak said that further analysis of the data led authorities to conclude the plane went down in the southern Indian Ocean, far from land.
Malaysian officials then told the families of those on board that nobody would have survived.