Phillip Garrido, who with his wife is charged in the 1991 kidnapping of Jaycee Dugard, had been convicted of kidnapping before.
In her testimony, Hall said Garrido asked for a ride in her car, then bound and handcuffed her before taking her to a small warehouse in Reno, Nevada, where he repeatedly raped her for 5½ hours.
Watch how Garrido prepared for and explained the kidnapping »
Watch Hall describe her ordeal »
The trial transcript reveals that Garrido told authorities that one hour before Hall's kidnapping, he tried to kidnap another woman, who wrestled away and escaped.
In the case involving Hall, CNN reviewed the 1977 trial documents, which include Garrido's psychiatric evaluation and the testimony of Hall and Garrido.
»
"I asked him, couldn't we just pull over and get it over with," she testified.
"You might as well get that our of your mind; you are going with me, you have got no choice," Hall testified Garrido told her, according to court transcripts.
He asked a man who lived in a storage unit 30 feet away to call him should any unknown vehicles show up.
In the back, Garrido created a space set up like a stage.
"He knew what he was doing," she testified.
Hall didn't know that she wasn't originally part of the plan, although Garrido alluded to the fact he hadn't targeted her, saying it wasn't intentional that she was taken.
One hour before Hall was kidnapped in her own vehicle, Garrido asked a different woman in South Lake Tahoe, California, for a ride.
That kidnapping attempt came to light in a conversation between the prosecutor, defense attorney and judge in the case, according to the trial transcript.
The court documents also discussed Garrido's use of marijuana, cocaine and LSD, which Garrido said was so heavy it fueled his sexual desires and sometimes pushed him to a point he could no longer control them.
Sometimes, he said, he would open the car door, get out and pull down his pants.
On the night he took Hall captive and bound her with a leather strap in her car, he said he took four hits of LSD, a drug that he said he used daily for at least four years, sometimes taking up to 10 hits at a time.
Hall was curious, too, even during her kidnapping, what would make Garrido do this to her.
"He said that he didn't get off on pain," Hall recalled during her testimony.