Global climate change treaty, scheduled for completion in December, is designed to protect tropical forests.
On Tuesday, world leaders gather at the United Nations for a special climate change summit, intended to build momentum for a new global climate change treaty being negotiated by almost 200 countries.
Known as Reduced Emissions from Deforestation and Degradation in developing countries, or REDD, the provision is based on the knowledge that destroying tropical forests contributes to global warming.
Polluters in the developing world would be able to offset their emissions by buying credits for stored forest carbon dioxide.
To longtime defenders of tropical forests, the proposal represents the final stage of a long and halting journey from the fringes of the environmental movement toward the mainstream of international policy.
The system would let nations and industries that are the biggest greenhouse-gas emitters buy carbon credits in tropical forests in South and Central America, Africa, Southeast Asia and other equatorial regions.
President Bharrat Jagdeo of Guyana, a leading proponent of the plan, has made trading carbon credits a central element of his Low-Carbon Development Strategy.
However, both funds are not fully capitalized, pending the successful conclusion of negotiations on the new global climate change treaty.
Now, they say, conserving forests also can contribute to sustainable development, benefiting both nature and people.
REDD also would protect standing forests, to prevent the absorbed carbon dioxide stocks from being released back into the atmosphere.
In response, conservationists and developing nations warn against leaving out nations and regions -- including Jagdeo's Guyana, parts of Indonesia and Brazil, Democratic Republic of Congo and others -- that still have much of their tropical forest intact.
A Greenpeace report issued in March said including REDD credits in carbon markets would create a glut and drastically cut the price of carbon, resulting in industrial polluters buying cheap credits for offsets instead of reducing their emissions.
Jagdeo, the president of Guyana, has said such critics should recognize the opportunity that a new climate change treaty could present.
"If there is a deal in Copenhagen and if there is a signaling by industrialized nations that, yes, they will make money available, then you will see developing countries scaling up their readiness," said the World Bank's Bosquet.