London (CNN)British police investigating a spectacular heist in the heart of London's jewelry district said Friday they knew a burglar alarm went off but didn't respond.
Over the four-day Easter holiday, thieves broke into the vault of Hatton Garden Safe Deposit Ltd. and might have been able to take as long as four days to rifle through the boxes.
Detective Chief Inspector Paul Johnson of the London Metropolitan Police Flying Squad said police were still identifying the owners of ransacked safe deposit boxes and trying to contact them to learn what had been lost.
Toward the end of the video, a white van can be seen on a street during daytime with individuals loading back their gear and the trash bins.
When asked about the video published by the Daily Mirror, police said they could not confirm that it was footage from the Hatton Garden robbery and that officers have not seen that particular video.
At 9:27 p.m., a street camera shows a white Ford Transit van pulling up to an alley beside the Hatton Garden Safe Deposit building.
At 9:36 p.m., Mr. Strong and a thief nicknamed Mr. Montana for the logo on his hooded sweatshirt roll in trash bins, one of which might have contained, according the Mirror, the 77-pound drill that bored through the reinforced seven-foot concrete wall to reach the vault.
On Saturday evening, Mr. Ginger returns, two days after he was first seen.
Early Sunday, Mr Ginger, the Tall Man and a robber nicknamed the Old Man are seen to be active.
A white van arrives by the alley and the men start loading equipment on it, including several trash bins.
Johnson said the thieves appeared to have gained access to the vault through the shaft of an elevator that is used by several businesses in the building.
He said the floor was covered with dust and littered with safe deposit boxes and power tools.
Hatton Garden is a storied area in London and the heart of the city's diamond trade.
"The Hatton Garden area has been the epicentre of London's jewellery trade since medieval times.