"You feel like you're in a fight with one hand tied behind your back," said Mosier, 56.
The drugs most often in short supply include anesthetics and oncological drugs.
Mosier was able to get her required surgery, but her doctor, Dr. Wendel Naumann, was unable to get Doxil, the chemotherapy treatment she needed.
In a follow-up interview with Mosier's daughters on this past weekend's "Sanjay Gupta, MD," daughter Michelle Philipp told Gupta, "We weren't sure until even (the) last minute if she was able to come.
"You feel like you're in this time now, it's 2012.
In a recent report, the panel claimed the FDA -- the very agency tasked with dealing with shortages -- is partly to blame for the shortage situation.
"Let me just say, very clearly, that the report is incorrect," Dr. Sandra Kweder of the FDA said on "Sanjay Gupta, MD."
"We are not in this situation because the FDA is shutting down companies.
On Monday, the FDA issued a letter to Rep. Elijah Cummings (D-Maryland) of the House Oversight Committee, responding to the committee's blaming the FDA for the shortages.
A November 2011 FDA inspection found additional problems, including finding a 10-gallon can in a storage area that contained urine.
From their findings, the House Oversight Committee found that 58% of the drugs on the shortage list were produced at facilities cited by the FDA.
You're not asked to worry if there's a stable supply.
When we issue warning letters today, we ask companies to very specifically communicate with us how they plan to address the problem, so we can assess what the potential of a shortage is, " she told CNN.
"So for example, we can go to other companies to ask them to increase their production.
Since Obama signed an executive order requesting early notification from manufacturers in November 2011, more and more companies have been able to give the FDA the needed heads-up.
"I think it's a start," says Naumann, but it's not enough.
I don't think these shortages are going to go away because of this bill."