(CNN) -- The thing about North Korea is that once in a while, it does something that sends the international community into a flurry of talk about the hermit nation, even though little is known about what's really going on.
Now, the new "Dear Leader" can claim not just a public relations victory but also a tangible accomplishment as he prepared for Monday's anniversary of Kim Jong Il's death.
"The question is what does Kim Jong Un intend?
"He wants to show his people after one year in leadership, North Korea is a strong military, technological, space, nuclear power (with) nuclear weapons," Richardson said.
"I think this is very important to Kim Jong Un to build political legitimacy and bolster the spirits of his people," he said.
The launch was a continuation of Kim Jong Un's father's project and it was important to achieve success days ahead of the death anniversary, especially after a failed rocket launch in April.
"This is a tremendous psychological boost vis-a-vis the South," Park said referring to the fact that South Korea has not yet put a satellite in space.
The rocket launch allows Kim to establish military security for North Korea, said Park, and allows him to move forward with another priority: economic progress.
"Kim Jong Un's primary objective is to improve the economy by participating in the international market," Park said.
"In the big scheme of things, Kim Jong Un must have thought that North Korea would be taken more seriously (after a rocket launch)."
Sigal warned that at the moment, there were no signs of any economic changes.
Sigal said.
"He's saying to the world, 'Look, I'm back,'" Richardson said about Kim Jong Un.
Richardson believes the main message this week has to be that the United States and the four other countries that have been involved in talks with North Korea -- China, Japan, South Korea and Russia -- have to come up with a new approach in their dealings with Pyongyang.
Sigal said the only way to get what Washington wants on the nuclear front is to come to the table.
Sigal likes to say that there is only one thing tougher than negotiating.