Suu Kyi, 67, has led her people in a decades' long quest for democracy in Burma, the country renamed Myanmar by a brutal military dictatorship, which now appears ready to usher in democratic reform.
This week, Suu Kyi made a triumphant and stirring return to the world stage, traveling to the West, her home for 24 years before she became an accidental leader of the revolution and the regime's prisoner in her home in Yangon, the generals' new name for Rangoon.
"The Lady," as she is known among her countrymen and women, stands as one of the few genuine heroes of our time, someone in the mold of Nelson Mandela and Mohandas Gandhi, who not only inspired by their ideals and sacrifice but, just as importantly, who prevailed in achieving their goals against powerful foes.
But then her mother became ill. She traveled to Burma from her home in Oxford to care for her.
When anti-junta protests broke out in August 1988, she addressed a crowd of hundreds of thousands at the iconic Shwedagon Pagoda Buddhist shrine in Yangon.
Suu Kyi found herself as a top target of the regime.
She feared the world would forget her, as she lived out her life in isolation under heavy guard on Yangon's University Avenue.
She stayed a prisoner in Burma and never saw her husband again.
The technique worked because her charisma, spirituality and moral courage inspired not only her people, but the rest of the world.
Without Suu Kyi, the world would not have known about the misery and repression that the junta had foisted on the Burmese people.
Nonviolence is not always a viable course of action -- its slow methods can run out of time, or simply fail against despotism -- but sometimes it can work.
For years she was the one who insisted the West should not lift economic sanctions, even when that meant more hardships for her and her people.
But if she and her supporters do, in fact, forge democracy in their country, as now seems probable, it is because she was able to leverage her appeal to bring harsh international sanctions against Burma.
She has proven she is one of the few people who truly deserve to become a hero, an icon of their time.