LONDON, England (CNN) -- From "Gladiator" to "The Lion King", "Pirates of the Caribbean" to "The Simpsons," film composer Hans Zimmer's versatile and imaginative scores have added aural color, light and shade to the on-screen action.
.................................
HZ: It changes all the time.
For instance, on "Pirates 3," a lot of the music was written while Gore was shooting or before he went off shooting the movie.
With "The Simpsons," I thought, "Hang on a second, they've been around for years but none of the characters have any themes really."
CNN: Your score for "Gladiator" really stands out.
HZ: It started off with Ridley phoning me.
And I thought, "How benign, how wonderful.
I thought, "I want to find the most benign, banal music and sort of savage it up and make it our battle music."
A director can be in control on pretty much everything: he can rewrite lines in the script; he can act a little for the actors; he can look into the camera and adjust all that.
HZ: I go there.
I told him, "See if you can buy any instruments or record some of the stuff."
The wind on telegraph wires is a great sound; get it into your machine and play it and it becomes interesting.
When you play anything for anybody for the first time it's terrifying because you're letting them having a look at a very vulnerable part of you.
I finished "Pirates," had one day off and got into "The Simpsons" and it's a very different language.
I took the first one, 'Circle of Life,' and made up my mind there were two ways I could approach it: I could either be really respectful of Elton's notes and what he had done, and very slavishly try to orchestrate it, or I could try to make it my own, usurp it, throw my stuff at it and go crazy, which is pretty much what I did.
Then they had to show it to Elton and I'm sitting next to him, pretty nervous -- and on the CD you get Elton's version and my version and you can see how radically different they are -- and the great thing about him is he's so secure in his artistry as a songwriter that he loved it.
HZ: When I first started working here I noticed there was the A-list and then no one else got to work, and the A-list was pretty small.
"The Graduate" must be the best use of songs ever in a movie; it adds a layer to the movie you wouldn't ever get from a score.
"The Mission Law," "Chariots of Fire," "Lawrence of Arabia" -- I can't imagine those movies would have worked as well with just a bunch of songs put into them.
HZ: There are very few great scores.
The movie and the score are truly one and it gives you an incredibly complete experience.