Hong Kong (CNN) -- The international community is now waiting for confirmation from the United States and South Korea on whether a seismic disturbance in North Korea Tuesday is in fact the hermit regime's third underground nuclear test.
With Chinese technical assistance, North Korea begins working on the development of short-range ballistic missiles based on Soviet Scud technology, which is itself derived from Germany's V-2 rocket.
A No-dong is successfully tested from the Musudan-ri launch site, traveling 500km before plunging into the Sea of Japan (East Sea).
North Korea has long been suspected of developing its own nuclear weapons program.
North Korea pledges to freeze long-range missile tests.
A Bush administration official says North Korea has conducted an engine test of the Taepo-dong-1 missile.
North Korea withdraws from the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, an agreement that was signed by most of the world's countries to prevent the spread of nuclear weapons.
North Korea test-fires six missiles, including a long-range Taepo-dong-2 rocket believed capable of reaching western United States.
Responding to the test, the U.N. Security Council approves a resolution to impose sanctions against North Korea and require an end to nuclear and ballistic missile tests.
North Korea initiates what it calls a peaceful launch of a satellite, but the U.S. State Department declares it a "provocative act in violation" of a 2006 Security Council resolution prohibiting North Korea from conducting ballistic missile launches.
North Korea declares it will launch a long-range rocket in April to deploy a satellite into orbit.
Just two days after announcing that the launch window would be extended due to technical issues, a long-range rocket lifts off from a launch site on the west coast of North Korea.
North Korea appeared to have conducted its third underground nuclear bomb test February 12, as the U.S. Geological Survey reported a seismic disturbance centered near the site of the secretive regime's two previous nuclear tests.
The area around the reported epicenter of the magnitude 4.9 disturbance has little or no history of earthquakes or natural seismic hazards, according to U.S. Geological Survey maps.