Turkey made a significant policy shift Monday when it announced it would allow Kurdish Peshmerga fighters from northern Iraq to travel through the Turkish territory to reinforce the besieged Kurdish town of Kobani in northern Syria.
The scenes of Kurdish and ISIS fighters locked in a death struggle on the border, as well as the images of more than 100,000 desperate Syrian Kurds fleeing to Turkish territory, triggered spasms of deadly violence between rival factions within Turkey.
More than 30 people were killed in cities around Turkey this month as ethnic Kurds clashed with Islamist and nationalist groups as well as Turkish police.
Agirnasli, a member of Turkey's Marxist-Leninist Communist Party, was reported killed this month in Kobani after he volunteered to join Kurdish militants defending the city.
"I never thought that someone from our university would actually go there and get killed," said Suveyda Cil, 19, a Bogazici student.
"What's going on in Kobani today is basically kind of a struggle against barbarians ... against people who have no sense of humanity," said Zafer Yenal, the head of Bogazici's sociology department.
Historically, the Turkish government has persecuted and marginalized this community, referring to them for years as "mountain Turks."
The PKK initially fought to carve an independent Kurdistan out of Kurdish-populated regions of Turkey, Iraq, Syria and Iran.
"This peace process is one of the only good things happening in the Middle East today," Pope said.
Hundreds of Turks are believed to have joined the movement.
Another unnamed Turkish militant explained in a video why he left his three children behind in Istanbul to join ISIS in Syria.
ISIS supporters have emerged on at least one Istanbul university campus.
The International Crisis Group's Pope said that when it comes to ISIS "there's a conflicted feeling in Turkey.
"We saw one man killed," Zor said, referring to the multiple beheadings and executions ISIS militants filmed on camera and distributed over social media.
Pope advises against Turkey being drawn further into the Syrian civil war.
In an op-ed in The Wall Street Journal, deputy secretary-general of the presidency, Ibrahim Kalin, argued instead that the U.S.-led coalition should focus on overthrowing Syrian President Bashar al-Assad.