Abortion was legal under common law in the United States leading up to the 19th century, says Leslie Reagan, professor of history and law at the University of Illinois and author of "When Abortion was a Crime."
1821: Connecticut passes the first law in the United States to restrict abortion.
A number of other states follow.
The dangerous practice of unregulated abortions led to a high U.S. maternal mortality rate, Reagan says.
1950s: Hospitals start to form "therapeutic abortion boards" to decide whether doctors can perform an abortion on a case-by-case basis, according to Reagan.
1960s: Pat Maginnis founds the Society for Humane Abortion, later becoming one of the first people to publicly campaign for legalizing abortion.
The hospital was initially going to perform the procedure but withdrew its offer after Finkbine told her story to the local newspaper in hopes of alerting mothers to the dangers of the drug.
"That prompted people all over the place to start putting together cases... challenging state abortion laws," Reagan says.
1970: By the early 1970s, 20 states have passed abortion reform or repeal laws.
1973: The Supreme Court settles Roe v. Wade and Doe v. Bolton, declaring abortion a right-to-privacy issue and hospital therapeutic abortion boards unconstitutional.
Congress enacts the Hyde Amendment for the first time, banning the use of federal funds for abortion except in cases of rape, incest or endangerment of the mother's life.
1992: Supporters on either side of the abortion issue are left confused after the Supreme Court rules on Planned Parenthood of Southeastern Pennsylvania.
2003: President George W. Bush signs the "partial-birth abortion" bill, outlawing the procedure known as intact dilation and extraction (D&X).
2007: The Supreme Court upholds the partial-birth abortion law 5-4 in the first federal restriction on a particular abortion method since Roe v. Wade.
Tiller, who had been subject to antiabortion protests and harassment for more than 20 years, was the first abortion provider killed since 1998.
Research from the Alan Guttmacher Institute finds the number of abortions is at its lowest level since Roe v. Wade, remaining steady at about 1.2 million reported procedures in 2011, down 25% since the all-time high in 1990.
Starting in 2014, the level of abortion coverage each woman will receive will depend on their state's policy, according to the Kaiser Family Foundation.
Sources: "When Abortion Was A Crime," by Leslie Reagan; Kaiser Family Foundation; 4,000 Years For Choice; NPR; National Right to Life.