Hickox, an epidemiologist who was working to help treat Ebola patients in Sierra Leone, has tested negative twice for Ebola and does not have symptoms, she said.
"First of all, I don't think he's a doctor; secondly, he's never laid eyes on me; and thirdly, I've been asymptomatic since I've been here," Hickox told Crowley Sunday.
Hickox told Crowley that mandatory quarantine is "not a sound public health decision" and that public health officials -- not politicians -- should be making the policies related to Ebola and public safety.
"She's fine.
She's not sick," lawyer Steven Hyman said in a sidewalk news conference aired on CNN affiliate WABC.
"We owe her better than that, and all the people who do this work, better than that," he added.
She was put in an isolation tent inside University Hospital in Newark.
Christie spokesman Kevin Roberts said late Sunday night: "The protocol is clear that a New Jersey resident with no symptoms, but who has come into contact with someone with Ebola, such as a health care provider, would be subject to a mandatory quarantine order and quarantined at home.
On Fox News Sunday morning, Christie said he had "no second thoughts" about New Jersey's mandatory quarantine for health care workers.
"Everyone keeps asking how I'm feeling physically and of course I'm fine physically, but I don't think most people understand what it's like to be alone in a tent and decisions are being made that don't make sense and show no compassion," Hickox said, starting to cry.
Hickox said she's not allowed to see her lawyer or anyone else.
A spokeswoman for the hospital said staff is trying to make Hickox comfortable.
Hickox said she worries that her experience will discourage other aid workers from going to West Africa to help quell the Ebola outbreak.
Hickox said she would welcome Christie to visit her in the hospital.
After hearing Hickox's phone interview with Candy Crowley on Sunday, New Jersey Health officials emailed CNN's "State of the Union" to refute some of the claims made by Hickox.
In the email, Donna Leusner, communications director for the New Jersey Department of Health, wrote that Hickox did receive reading materials and got computer access.