(CNN) -- The surviving suspect in the Boston Marathon bombings has cited the U.S. wars in Afghanistan and Iraq as motivating factors behind last week's attack, a U.S. government official said Tuesday.
Authorities slowly began allowing residents and business owners back into the area Tuesday.
"I've had a tough time," he said.
"For us and our business, it's really about how do we get back to Boston, how do we band together, how do we help those that were seriously injured that are going to have lifelong struggles," she said.
Family members of 8-year-old Martin Richard held a private funeral Mass Tuesday, his parents said in a statement.
Family, friends and colleagues mourned slain Massachusetts Institute of Technology police Officer Sean Collier at a private memorial service in Stoneham, Massachusetts, CNN affiliate WHDH reported.
Authorities suspect Tsarnaev and his 26-year-old brother of killing the officer, though Dzhokhar Tsarnaev has not been charged in Collier's death.
Investigators believe Tamerlan Tsarnaev carried out the car jacking while his younger brother was nearby at the time, a U.S. official told CNN Tuesday.
They said they won't hurt me.
"
He said the store notified the FBI after discovering that the marathon bombing suspect had bought explosives there.
Law enforcement officials told CNN earlier Tuesday that the number of fireworks bought at the store was not enough to set off explosions the size of those at the Boston Marathon.
Boat owner David Henneberry told CNN affiliate WCVB Tuesday that his obsession with how his boat was stored just right led him to discover the suspect as he stood on a ladder replacing two pads that had fallen out of the shrink wrap protecting his boat for the winter.
Henneberry said Tuesday that he doesn't even remember climbing down the ladder and running to the phone to dial 911, delivering the tip that would lead to Tsarnaev's capture.
That is all I remember," he told the affiliate.
Authorities are still investigating whether Tsarnaev was armed and whether a shootout occurred at the boat, Evans told reporters.
Although Tamerlan Tsarnaev had become increasingly radical in the past three or four years, there was no evidence Tuesday of any accomplices or connections to extremists, a U.S. official said.
But Dzhokhar Tsarnaev conveyed to authorities that his brother believed Islam is under attack and its adherents must fight back, a U.S. government source said Monday.
And Tamerlan Tsarnaev's wife, Katherine Russell, issued a statement through her attorney's office saying she is "doing everything she can to assist with the investigation" and said she and her family are shocked and distraught.
She said family members have arranged for Tamerlan Tsarnaev to be buried at a mosque in Cambridge, Massachusetts, Tuesday or Wednesday.
A spokesman for the chief medical examiner's office also said officials there have heard nothing about plans by the slain suspect's family to claim his body.