"Dungeons & Dragons," commonly known simply as D&D, burst onto the scene in 1974, long before the word "gaming" came with the implied word "video" in front of it.
"In today's culture, D&D has found its place as a leader and influencer over storytellers across so many different mediums," said Nathan Stewart, brand director for D&D at Wizards of the Coast, the company publishing the game.
The game allowed players to tap into their own creativity while socializing with friends.
"My mom flipped out, of course.
Video game creator Ken Levine didn't have friends to play D&D with when he discovered the game in 1978.
"So I went from having no friends and no social circle to an immediate social circle through 'Dungeons & Dragons,' " said Levine, who is best known as creator of the "Bioshock" series.
"Without Dungeons & Dragons, there is a very different person in this chair right now.
"Often times when people think of D&D, they think of the dice, maps and groups of friends sitting around the kitchen table," Stewart said.
"D&D was about creativity -- both in terms of the player experience and the Dungeon Master experience," Levine said.
Holkins played many of the games and felt the games leveraged the vast settings of the D&D's campaigns without tying themselves to its specific rules -- thereby leaning more on storytelling rather than combat.
"Dungeons & Dragons" sessions are social, Levine said.
"Different groups are all playing the same game, theoretically, but in practice there's a lot of culture that isn't really portable from table to table and people approach it with their own style," he said.
"It would have to be like that, when you think about it.
From the original rules in 1974 to "Advanced Dungeons & Dragons" in 1981 up to "D&D 4th Edition" released in 2008, the idea has always been to give players a framework to create adventures the way they want to experience and enjoy them.
A brand new "Player's Handbook," "Monster Manual," and "Dungeon Master's Guide" will be released this summer, setting the foundations for the game's future.
"We're aiming to tell the story not only in the role-playing game, but in other venues so that people can experience it at a number of different levels to a number of different depths," Perkins said.
Players will have a shared story, but what actually happens during a tabletop game will be different than in the digital games.
While rule changes have usually resulted in the gnashing of teeth and wailing of voices from some players, Perkins said there is flexibility built in to the new edition so players can play and enjoy whatever type of game they want, using as much or as little of the new system as they want.
"Let's get a group of friends together and have an adventure," Levine said.
It wants to be a place where the player has the ability to be more expressive."