(CNN) -- The Gettysburg Address was a quick-hitting speech that was built to last.
His words are some of the most memorable in American history, forever stamping our collective minds with "four score and seven years ago," and "all men are created equal," and of course a "government of the people, by the people, for the people."
Baron said the last president with an "oratorial" style -- on the whole -- was probably John F. Kennedy, who was assassinated 100 years and three days after the delivery of the Gettysburg Address.
Lincoln was able to get straight to the point and deliver a punchy speech in part because he came after Edward Everett's marathon presentation about the war, explains James Cornelius, curator of the Lincoln Collection in the Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library and Museum.
Sound familiar?
Lincoln just said in two minutes what Everett tried to say in two hours.
People also share the quotations on social media.
We found that people in some states, like Delaware, were particularly fond of quoting the address and that different parts of the speech were more popular in some states than others.
This line is a bit of an inside remark shared with the audience, believed by most historians to be a reference to Psalm 90:10, which most people of the day would know is an allusion to the human lifespan.
"He's a little bit worried that the nation might die at about the average lifespan that a human would," Cornelius said.
"In his call for democracy and equality, (Lincoln) doesn't mention slavery, but everyone knew that was what he was talking about," Cornelius said.
Little doubt exists that Lincoln opposed slavery, and in fact loathed it, Cornelius said.
This part was the second-most-mentioned phrase in the entire speech, rivaling "four score and seven years ago" in popularity, despite the fact that it's not a particularly well-known part of the Gettysburg Address.
There is always a percentage of the population that will make that argument at a certain point.
They felt so strongly about preserving the union and ending slavery that you should not let their efforts carry into the wind.
There are five versions of the speech, and one of them omits those two words.
Cornelius said historians trace this part back to Daniel Webster, a senator and U.S. secretary of state before the Civil War.
Even Lincoln himself is said to have used a version of the phrase in a letter 20 years before the address, Cornelius said.
Cornelius said one can see the endurance of Lincoln's speaking legacy by taking a stroll into the Lincoln library's gift shop, where you can pick up your very own T-shirt with a Lincoln quotation on it.
Maybe that's why people can't help but post the speech on social media, 150 years after the fact.