An Egypt-backed cease-fire between Israel and Hamas fell apart Tuesday as rocket attacks from Gaza were again answered by Israeli airstrikes.
"But Hamas said no to everyone.
Hamas said no to the cease-fire, both in word and in deed," Regev said.
The Israeli Security Cabinet met early Tuesday morning and decided to halt aerial strikes beginning at 9 a.m. (2 a.m.
"Hamas have decided to continue, and will pay the price for that decision," Netanyahu said Tuesday.
The Egyptian plan calls for all sides to cease hostilities in Gaza.
He said that what Palestinians really want is an end to the Israeli blockade on Gaza that is suffocating the daily lives of the 1.8 million Palestinians living there.
Hamas spokesman Osama Hamdan later stressed that Hamas never received the proposal through political channels.
We are still talking to other sides," he told CNN.
Asked why Hamas won't stop firing rockets while talks are ongoing, the spokesman replied: "We are not the side who is killing the other side.
The United Nations has said that most of the people killed by Israel's aerial attacks are civilians.
The Israeli military says it uses a variety of methods, including phone calls and leaflets, to warn civilians of impending strikes.
Hamas on Tuesday closed a crossing between Gaza and Israel but allowed 25 Palestinians -- some of them needing medical attention -- to cross into Israel at Erez.
The border crossing at Erez was closed not as punitive measure, but because the Gazan side has been targeted in airstrikes, said Maher Abu Subha, the head of the committee for border crossings in Gaza.
One official said the United States wants to give Egypt a chance to reassert itself as a power broker in the Middle East, as it did during the 2012 cease-fire.
Kerry strongly condemned the rocket launches by Hamas in the face of the cease-fire plan, and said he is prepared to fly to the Middle East as early as Wednesday, if needed.
Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas will travel to Egypt on Wednesday to meet with the President and to discuss a possible cease-fire, the official Palestinian news agency WAFA reported.
"It's important that the United States demand a cease-fire," he said.