Holmes is accused of opening fire on the crowd, killing 12 people and injuring or maiming 70 others in Aurora, a suburb of Denver.
Holmes says he was insane at the time of the shootings, and that is his legal defense and court plea: not guilty by reason of insanity.
Holmes admits to the shootings but says he was suffering "a psychotic episode" at the time,  according to court papers filed in July 2013 by the state public defenders, Daniel King and Tamara A. Brady.
He appeared dramatically different in January when jury selection began for his trial: 9,000 potential jurors were summoned for duty, described as one of the nation's largest jury calls.
Just before the shooting, Holmes was a doctoral student in neuroscience, and he was studying how the brain works, with his schooling funded by a U.S. government grant.
When jury summonses were issued in January, each potential juror stood a 0.2% chance of being selected, District Attorney George Brauchler told the final jury this month.
The jury will have to render verdicts on each of the 165 counts against Holmes, including murder and attempted murder charges.
His family then moved down the California coast, where Holmes grew up in the San Diego-area neighborhood of Rancho Peñasquitos, which a neighbor described as "kind of like Mayberry," the San Diego newspaper said.
By then, his peers described him as standoffish and a bit of a wiseacre, the San Diego newspaper said.
By 2011, he had enrolled as a doctoral student in the neuroscience program at the University of Colorado Anschutz Medical Campus in Aurora, the largest academic health center in the Rocky Mountain region.
Holmes was one of six pre-thesis Ph.D. students in the program who were awarded a neuroscience training grant from the National Institutes of Health.
Holmes was "denied access to the school after June 12, 2012, after he made threats to a professor," according to court documents.
Holmes began to fantasize about killing "a lot of people" in early June, nearly six weeks before the shootings, the station reported, citing unidentified sources familiar with the investigation.
At issue was whether to order Holmes held for 72 hours to be evaluated by mental health professionals, the station reported.
Police said he also booby-trapped his third-floor apartment with explosives, but police weren't fooled.
Nine minutes before Holmes went into the movie theater, he called a University of Colorado switchboard, public defender Brady has said in court.
She asked if he had left Aurora yet, reported the newspaper, which didn't identify her.
"It was," Holmes wrote her, according to the Times.
It was her last contact with Holmes.
In December, Holmes' parents, who will be attending the trial, issued another statement: They asked that their son's life be spared and that he be sent to an institution for mentally ill people for the rest of his life, if he's found not guilty by reason of insanity.