Washington (CNN) -- Congressional negotiators reached a tentative deal Tuesday to extend the payroll tax cut and unemployment benefits while avoiding a fee cut for Medicare doctors, according to Republican legislators and aides.
Other GOP House legislators said they expected it to pass with support from a majority of Republicans, as well as Democrats.
Under the agreement that would cover the rest of 2012, the nearly $100 billion payroll tax cut would not be paid for -- a consequence of the parties' inability to compromise on either new taxes or offsetting spending cuts, said top congressional aides from both parties.
However, House Majority Leader Eric Cantor, R-Virginia, was less enthusiastic, saying "this is not our preferred way" to deal with the issues and adding that details were still being studied.
Congressional aides differed by party on details of extending the unemployment benefits, particularly the maximum number of weeks that will be funded.
News of the tentative deal came hours after President Barack Obama publicly urged Congress to extend the payroll tax cut, which is currently set to expire at the end of February.
The payroll tax cut, unemployment benefits and enhanced "doc fix" payments are set to expire at the end of February under a short-term agreement reached by Congress in December.
On Monday, House GOP leaders dropped their demand that any extension of the tax cut be offset by spending cuts elsewhere in the budget.
The debate over whether and how to extend the tax cut has been a political loser so far for the Republicans, who had publicly questioned its value last year.
...
"Failing to extend the payroll tax would not only be unpopular, it would shift some of the responsibility for the economy back on the Republicans.
In announcing their shift on the payroll tax issue Monday, Boehner and two other top House GOP leaders said they wanted separate the matter from legislation dealing with unemployment benefits and the doc fix.
Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nevada, and House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, D-California, on Tuesday urged Republicans to allow Congress to quickly complete its work on all three issues -- the payroll tax cut, unemployment insurance, and the doc fix.
"These crucial policies affect millions of middle class families and seniors and must not expire at the end of this month," Pelosi said.
One key conservative, Rep. Jim Jordan of Ohio, indicated Tuesday he's prepared to back Boehner and the other House GOP leaders.
But tea party Republicans "don't care" if fighting the tax cut extension is "a political loser.