The two-mile trip through the Boston suburb of Brookline, Massachusetts, is usually without incident.
Furth would catch up with drivers at stoplights and ask them whether they knew how close they'd come to hitting him.
Although the street signs say "Share the road," there's still a long road to travel before that sign reflects the reality, bicyclists say.
The purpose, advocates say, is to make cars and trucks more aware of bicyclists.
A caller who identified himself as Jeff said he witnessed an incident in which a pack of bicyclists almost hit a car that had the right of way.
"I actually think the bikes are more disrespectful to the cars than the cars are to the bike," Jeff said.
In Portland, Oregon, which is ranked second on Bicycling magazine's list of Top 50 Bike Friendly Cities, more than 6 percent of residents commute by bike to work.
Many cities are putting in bike lanes and paths.
You can't have jobs without the efficient movement of freight."
Hillsborough Street is one of the main arteries in Raleigh and borders the northern part of North Carolina State University and its 30,000 students.
The city, working with the state, has decided to redo the four-lane road, and when the project is done, there will be two lanes for cars, a center median and bike lanes on each side.
And it doesn't help that the relationship between cars and bicyclists in the city is "antagonistic at best," he said.
"The old one was all about the car, and we want to become a multimodal city," she said.
He said that although some Hillsborough Street business owners might be concerned about losing money because of less car traffic, the opposite is likely to happen.
Although opponents say the money is better spent on other road projects, cycling advocates say the lanes are needed to make the roads safer and less congested.
Denver received $250,000 of stimulus money for cycling projects and is going to add 11 miles of bike lanes.
"I've had one person honk at me and one person tell me to move over to the right," she said of her two years in the city.