"There were so many people out," Jones says.
Despite the perils of a long commute, most people in the United States drive to work, according to the American Community Survey (PDF).
LeeAnne Minnick was sitting in gridlocked traffic, waiting to get on an on-ramp, in a line of cars that had pulled over to let an ambulance pass.
"That incensed me," says Minnick, who makes a lengthy commute from Athens, Georgia, to Atlanta -- about a 70-mile trip -- three days a week.
The back seat of the car is what James calls the "road rage nursery."
This venting may feel good in the moment, but it reinforces the emotions for the next driving trip, he says.
You might try keeping a diary of how you feel every day after your commute, or just keep a mental note about your state of mind.
You may realize that your negative thoughts may not be proportional to the offenses you perceive from other drivers.
The "aggressive, combative, competitive frame for driving" may be linked to our evolutionary past, but it could have implications for cardiovascular disease, says David Strayer, a psychology professor at the University of Utah.
"In the simulator studies we've done, they'll actually start driving by cars and flipping them off and honking at them," Strayer says.
Long-term stress increases the risk of cardiovascular disease, he says.
"Maybe it is better off to say, 'I'm going to put the radio on a station that's nice, and kind of chill out for the 30 or 40 minutes, rather than aggressively try to get home and beat everyone else,'" Strayer says.
People get bored while driving for a long time.
About one in three fatalities on the road can be linked to some kind of distraction; some estimates put this figure even higher, Strayer says.
Distractions in your car can slow everyone else down, too, Strayer says.
But even hands-free, voice-activated interaction with phones can be distracting, Strayer says.
Reimer is working with Toyota's Collaborative Safety Research Center to study the visual and nonvisual demands of your attention while driving.
"It was something that was taking an enormous toll on my overall happiness, on my ability to deal with stress, on the amount of free time that I had," says Micah Puett, who used to live in Atlanta and worked for Turner Broadcasting in the 1990s.
Puett now lives in a more urban neighborhood of Denver, where he can walk and bike around.
"There's no amount of money that I would accept to do that."
And Minnick says she loves her job enough to make the trek from Athens three times a week.
I'm really good at knowing what's going to make me happy for two hours."