In the past few years, Rep. Mark Souder of Indiana had an affair with the staff member who had helped him produce a video promoting sexual abstinence.
Many Americans believe these scandals reflect a precipitous decline in respect for marital fidelity.
In a 2006 poll by the Pew Research Center, 88% of Americans said adultery was immoral -- a higher number than for any other of 10 unsavory behaviors they were asked about.
So did Warren G. Harding, who also carried on an affair with the wife of a family friend.
President John F. Kennedy's affairs and one-night stands may have numbered even more.
Powerful men have "people" to take care of the mundane details of life.
But why do equally powerful women so seldom engage in such risky affairs?
Powerful men are rewarded for being risk takers, a political consultant once told me, whereas women feel more need to control their emotions and impulses if they are to succeed.
As someone who has studied the evolution of love, sexuality, and marriage over the centuries, I believe the frequency of these sexual scandals reflects the fact that many men and women have still not fully incorporated into their daily emotional lives the new ideals about gender equity and mutuality that have emerged in the past 40 years.
Today many -- perhaps most -- men sincerely want to marry women who are partners rather than subordinates.
But the experiences and emotions of men and women diverged as men began to earn money outside the home while women concentrated on meeting family needs.
I think this pattern helps explain why so few women are tempted by the adoration of younger acolytes but often fall for superiors or mentors, while many otherwise happily married men become so intoxicated by admiration that they risk their careers and families for its temporary rush.
Rep. Anthony Wiener apparently thought any woman who admired his political views would be turned on by an unsolicited picture of his crotch.
The challenge facing modern couples -- not just the men and women in these scandals -- is to root out our old psychological habits and incorporate our new expectations of love and marriage into our deepest emotional core.