(CNN)By now, you probably have a position regarding the controversy over Indiana's religious freedom law.
As the author of the 1993 federal Religious Freedom Restoration Act (RFRA), Sen. Chuck Schumer is one who can offer clarity over the controversy surrounding Indiana's version of the law.
The federal law was intended to protect individual's religious freedom from government intervention, he said.
Also, the law was envisioned to protect the religious freedoms of individuals, while the Indiana law also protects private companies, Schumer said.
But other state laws mirror the federal law much more closely than the Indiana law does.
The photography studio lost the case because the court ruled that it could not use the religious freedom law because the dispute was between two private parties and not a government entity.
Would an Indiana jury side with the company that refused service to a couple because of their sexual orientation?
Yes, the Indiana law makes it clear that individuals and private companies can use the religious freedom law as a defense, he said.
In his opinion, if Elane Photography had been able to use the law as a defense in New Mexico, it still likely would have lost the case.
The success of such arguments is to be seen.
Today, it is being championed by Republicans.
They were denied unemployment benefits, and they sued the state, claiming that the peyote was part of their religious customs.
But Holbrook says it is no coincidence that the religious freedom laws became popular at the state level just as the gay rights and marriage equality movement made historic steps.
Holbrook said.
So we've established that the biggest difference between the federal law and the Indiana law is the scope: In Indiana, the law can be raised as a defense in private disputes, while the federal law applies only to government matters.
According to Blackman, the interpretations of the federal religious freedom law are not uniform.
Hobby Lobby, citing the federal religious freedom law, argued that it should not have to provide contraception coverage through insurance to its employees via Obamacare because it was against the owners' beliefs.
The outrage over the Indiana law is that it can be used to deny services to the LGBT community on the ground of religious beliefs.
Even before the controversial Indiana law was passed, if a restaurant denied service to a gay couple, the couple might be able to sue, but not for discrimination.
If New Mexico had the same religious freedom law as Indiana, the case would have gone to trial.
But New Mexico has a nondiscrimination law that protects the LGBT community, it and it would have provided a strong counter-argument to the religious freedom claim.
Or, at the very least, an exception written into the religious freedom bill that protects from such discrimination.