(CNN) -- For 70 years, survivors of the December 7, 1941, attack on Pearl Harbor have captivated listeners with their firsthand accounts, recalling buddies who died in their arms or the glasses worn by a low-flying Japanese pilot.
"We don't like to see it happen," said George Bennett, 87, the organization's national secretary and a Pearl Harbor survivor.
The Sons and Daughters of Pearl Harbor Survivors, with about 20 chapters, is helping to "carry on the legacy left to us," said national president Louella Large, whose father served at the U.S. Army's Schofield Barracks during the attack.
Large, like others, is concerned that most U.S. schoolchildren today know almost nothing about the surprise attack that pulverized battleships and aircraft stationed at Hawaii.
No Japanese military veterans of the attack are able to be on hand for ceremonies honoring U.S. dead at the World War II Valor in the Pacific National Monument.
Among others traveling to Hawaii are families of two servicemen who died in the past two years.
Those of Lee Soucy, 90, of Plainview, Texas, will be carried Tuesday by a diver to the USS Utah, which also is entombed off Ford Island.
Tora!
Tora!"
Soucy, a pharmacist's mate on the USS Utah, would vividly recall a peaceful Sunday morning that quickly turned to terror, she said.
Soucy swam 200 yards to shore from the sinking vessel and was quickly recruited, because of his medical training, to help treat the injured.
The family will take part in the sunset ceremony, accompanied by full military honors, Tuesday at the USS Utah memorial.
McCormick said her father spoke at previous symposiums and met Japanese pilots.
On the day of the attack, Bennett heard explosions, but thought it might be part of a U.S. military exercise or an accident.
"We were trained to fight the Japanese, and the Japanese were trained to fight us," Bennett said.
In San Diego, Stu Hedley, 90, said fewer Pearl Harbor survivors are available in Southern California to give talks to groups or schools.
Hedley, the head of a local survivors chapter, will take part in a December 7 program in San Diego on the USS Midway carrier.
Hedley said he believes members of the U.S. government "sold us out" in 1941 and made the attack possible.
President Franklin D. Roosevelt wanted a "war economy ... and his idea was to let them fire the first shot," said the Navy veteran.
"Regardless of race, creed, religion or whatever."
"I've had college students who have asked me what Pearl Harbor was," he said.
"One of his buddies died in his arms," said Large, 63, of East Canton, Ohio.
Large said the Sons and Daughters will take over a national scholarship the Pearl Harbor Survivors Association once managed and invite veterans to its 2012 convention.
Though Large is concerned about what young people know about Pearl Harbor and its role in bringing the United States into World War II, she has experienced good moments during her efforts to spread the word.
He did so," Large said.