GALVESTON, Texas (CNN)  -- Rescuers in Galveston, Texas, were going door-to-door Saturday to check on the estimated 20,000 people who failed to flee Hurricane Ike, which has slowed to tropical storm status.
LeBlanc said the island would be closed while authorities assess damages, including to the causeway, which was in "bad shape" because of debris and road damage.
LeBlanc said 17 buildings on the island had been destroyed by fires, potent winds and a strong storm surge.
Many people, like D.J.
"The windows looked like they would explode," said Knight, a mother of two.
"It was horrible."
Lines of National Guard trucks and ambulances were deployed from San Antonio even as officials are trying to grasp the extent of damage and the number of Texans stranded by the storm.
In Galveston, which bore the brunt of the storm, floods filled the historic district with 7 feet of water at the storm's peak, said Galveston County official Margaret Bunch.
A foot of water flooded the city's main courthouse, where many people rode out the storm, she said.
Burle and Jamie Holmes also refused to leave their Galveston home despite a grim warning from the National Weather Service.
Houston Mayor Bill White said his city appears to have avoided loss of life, but streets blocked by floodwaters, downed trees and power lines hampered efforts to determine the full extent of the damage.
Brennan's, a popular restaurant in downtown Houston for almost four decades, burned down Friday night as Ike battered the city.
Nearly 2.6 million customers in Texas and Louisiana lack power because of Ike, the U.S. Energy Department said on Saturday.
Hurricane Ike proved to be a huge storm system, 900 miles across at its largest.
Its maximum sustained winds were near 80 mph, with higher gusts.
Authorities in Orange County, Texas, on the Louisiana line, were using large dump trucks Saturday to rescue residents trapped on their roofs by massive flooding, a county judge told CNN.
Watch the storm surge in Beaumont »
The U.S. Department of Energy said 14 refineries were closed by the storm, along with two Texas strategic petroleum reserve sites.
The Coast Guard said early Saturday that 22 people aboard a freighter that was adrift in the Gulf of Mexico were safe after the storm.
"She did a beautiful job with her delivery."