Comic book franchises will be flying by us faster than a speeding bullet this year, from a reboot of the Superman series (replacing Brandon Routh from "Superman Returns" with Henry Cavill for "Man of Steel" June 14) to the set-in-Japan "The Wolverine" July 26 to "Thor: The Dark World" November 8.
The stakes are more personal for Stark this time out, and although comic book fans will recognize the classic characters, Stark's got new on-screen villains to contend with such as Eric Savin/Coldblood, played by James Badge Dale.
Of his dim-witted character Brick Tamland, Steve Carell said that he hopes he hasn't changed at all since the first film, which came out in 2004.
"I think it's such a great ensemble piece that I would hope that our roles are the same as they were the first time around," Carell said.
Then "The Great Gatsby" had its release date shuffled from December 2012 to May 10, 2013, curtailing potential Oscar nominations this time around (although the trailers still look promising).
The second installment of the series, due November 22, just wrapped shooting in Hawaii (the new Game, featuring survivors of Games past, has a water-and-jungle theme).
But hot on the heels of "Catching Fire" are some worthy contenders, including boy-centric "Ender's Game" (out November 1), "The Mortal Instruments: City of Bones" (out August 23), and the first of the Caster Chronicles books to be adapted, "Beautiful Creatures" (out February 13).
Will Benedict Cumberbatch's mysterious "John Harrison" character become Khan?
Reports from early test screenings suggest the film, out October 18, is gorgeous and awe-inspiring, but also divisive along the lines of "The Tree of Life."
2013 will see its fair share of familiar properties getting new life in the form of remakes and reboots.
Will there be any eating of live octopus like in the original?
Smaug will be the first performance-captured dragon, and thanks to advancements in technology, we should be able to see more emotion and musculature in his face in the same manner in which Gollum was improved for "The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey," only on a much bigger scale.
Ryan Gosling fans have three ways to see their favorite actor in 2013: in "Gangster Squad," "Only God Forgives" and "The Place Beyond the Pines."
This time, however, it's more of a family drama; Gosling really only carries one third of the film.
In "This Is The End," an unspecified global cataclysm wipes out many famous actors playing themselves (including Michael Cera), so Rogen and friends hole up at James Franco's house and try to ride it out.
Fans of "Shaun of the Dead" and "Hot Fuzz" know this will be epic.
"Elysium" (starring Matt Damon, out March 1), "Oblivion" (starring Tom Cruise, out April 19), and "After Earth" (starring Will Smith, out June 7) share common themes, but only the first two seem to blame rampant corporatization and wealth discrepancies instead of nature.
In this scenario, the rich live on a luxurious new world called Elysium, and the poor live on Earth, which has become overpopulated, diseased and crime ridden.