Aleppo, Syria (CNN) -- Somehow, the hundreds of thousands of Syrians who can't -- or won't -- leave this battleground city have grown accustomed to living in a state of war.
This self-appointed council of judges, lawyers and clerics started working four months ago.
Gayed is a former appeals court judge who defected from the Syrian government and now serves as the general prosecutor for the United Courts Council.
The Free Syrian Army is the main rebel force fighting the government of President Bashar al-Assad.
In the "military prison," a court founded by rebels has incarcerated rebels accused of committing war crimes.
Others, like a bearded fighter who called himself Abu Younus, were being investigated for leading men into a battle that resulted in the friendly fire deaths of many fellow rebels.
Another jailed rebel, who asked not to be named, said, "I am a member of the Free Syrian Army and the captain of a battalion.
And now I'm waiting for the law to take its course ... in this failure of a court."
Yet at first glance, inmates there appeared to be treated better than at another makeshift rebel jail CNN visited in northern Syria last August.
At the United Courts Council jail in Aleppo, the prison warden led visitors to another cell, where men sat with their backs to the walls under heavy blankets.
"This section is for shabiha, informants, collaborators, spies and homosexuals," said the warden, who asked to be named only Abu Abdo.
"Our work now will prepare us for the day when the regime falls, because then there will be anarchy," Banna said.
"May God give victory to Bashar al-Assad," she said with a smile.
Another 23-year-old woman who asked not to be named said she had been arrested 16 days previously for being a shabiha.
One might assume the United Courts Council had been formed to create a rival judicial structure to the Syrian government, which is believed to control a quarter to a third of Aleppo.
"The man was here from Jabhat al-Nusra," Gayed explained after the man left.
I said no."
But Gayed, asked about al-Nusra, called its members "our brothers in the revolution.
...
Gayed argued his council's experiment in rebel justice is a more tolerant alternative to the Islamic courts that Nusra Front has reportedly been establishing in Aleppo and in other rebel controlled towns.