(CNN) -- Ray Rice's original punishment for knocking out his then-fiancee inside the elevator of an Atlantic City casino was controversial, but appeared a done deal: a two-game suspension.
The facts never changed -- Rice knocked Janay Palmer (now Janay Rice) unconscious.
It shows Rice and Palmer inside the elevator, where he punches her, and she lunges at the football player.
"We requested from law enforcement any and all information about the incident, including any video that may exist," NFL Vice President of Corporate Communications Brian McCarthy, said, specifically citing New Jersey State Police, Atlantic City police and Atlantic County prosecutor's office as places where the NFL inquired.
Revel Entertainment Group, which owns the casino where the incident happened, said it gave copies of the video to Atlantic City police, the prosecutor's office, the Division of Gaming Enforcement and Rice's attorney.
While the casino said that prosecutors were given the video of inside the elevator, prosecutors have not confirmed whether it was shown to the grand jury.
The elevator video has renewed outrage, but the court says the prosecutor cannot reconsider or ask the judge to revoke the deal with Rice unless he commits a new crime or doesn't follow along in the program.
It is rare to offer pretrial intervention in domestic violence cases, Callan said, but in Atlantic City -- with an elevated homicide rate -- this incident probably was not as big a priority.
The bad taste in many people's mouths comes from the way the incident has been described to the public by the parties involved.
As soon as those facts come to light, we believe the public will have a different opinion."
"We know there is more to Ray Rice than this one incident."
With the release of the latest video, many in the public certainly expressed a new opinion, but hardly in favor of Rice.
According to Janay Rice, waking up after her husband was cut from his team and suspended from the NFL was a nightmare.
What don't you all get," Janay Rice wrote.