(CNN) -- Director Oliver Stone was recently a speaker at a JFK assassination conference in Pittsburgh, and he was left wondering why the symposium wasn't getting a lot of love.
"There's nothing in the movie that I would go back on," he said.
In the film "JFK," Stone tears apart the Warren Commission's report that a single shooter -- Lee Harvey Oswald -- fired three shots from the sixth floor of the nearby book depository.
Despite his scholarly approach, Stone feels he and like-minded others are lumped together and dismissed as "conspiracy theorists," when now, more than ever, "we've since learned as Americans that the government lies, extensively," he said, citing the lead-up to the war in Iraq, revelations of U.S. government secrets via WikiLeaks and the Edward Snowden/NSA scandal.
If people knew about those loopholes, Stone said, the single-shooter theory and the "magic bullet" theory "fall apart, if anybody in their right mind looks at it," Stone said.
A lot of people are coming out and saying, 'I was there.
"My best answer to people who would criticize anything we say in the 'JFK' movie is to look at Chapter Six of 'Untold History,' 'JFK: To the Brink,' to understand the man, and the big picture of events," Stone said.
We didn't make it up."
"A president gets killed in Dallas, and we go back to a Cold War mindset, we go back to a military-industrial reaction in all situations," Stone said.
Because "JFK" was "such a controversial film, Stone said most of the extended Kennedy clan "wanted to stay away from it.
"I think conspiracies go on all the time," Stone said.
Random accidents and conspiracies have existed side by side for centuries, definitely.
But the biggest conspiracy of all for me is the one I grew up under, which was sprouted by my father, a Republican conservative, and the entire establishment of this country, which was, 'Hey, the Chinese and the Russians are in a conspiracy to take over the world!'
They're your back-door neighbor.'
"That's a conspiracy, OK?
People make up stories.
Although Stone entertained the conspiracy talk with the anniversary and reissues, he did note that the one story about himself that he'd like to see die is the one that makes him out to be the go-to conspiracy guy.
For one thing, the film he had hoped to make but went to someone else was "Evita."