London (CNN) -- As tens of thousands of athletes, team officials and visitors gather in London ahead of the Olympic opening ceremony on Friday, security is paramount for the Games organizers and British authorities.
With three days to go before the opening ceremony, G4S said it had around 5,800 security personnel deployed at Olympic venues, with more being trained and accredited "each day."
Visitors can certainly expect to see far more visible security measures in place than usual at Games venues and transport hubs.
Sebastian Coe, the chairman of the London organizing group, LOCOG, has said the only real difference resulting from the G4S debacle will be in the "mix of security" checking on those at Olympic venues.
The guards employed by G4S will be responsible chiefly for such tasks as providing venue perimeter security, a spokesman for the contractor said.
People with tickets for Olympic events have been sent e-mails giving details of the security requirements for each venue.
The 18,200 British military personnel deployed for the Games are to help out with the security checks and stewarding at venues, as well as specialist tasks such as bomb disposal and sniffer dog searches.
Police in London and elsewhere also will play a big role in ensuring security.
Officers at Olympic venues will focus on preventing crime and keeping people and their property safe, while G4S is responsible for the security operation, it says.
Travel to and around the United Kingdom will nevertheless be a focus of security efforts.
Visitors arriving at London's Heathrow Airport can expect to see every desk at passport control manned during the Olympic Games, the home secretary has said.
The TSA staffers will not, however, be conducting security screening or inspections, the Department for Transport said.
But visitors can seek reassurance in the fact that Britain's police and intelligence officials have been successful since then in foiling attacks on the capital.
"At no stage can you guarantee that someone won't do something moronic, stupid, violent and tragic; not just in London, but the whole of the UK is a potential target in this period," he said.
CNN's Richard Allen Greene contributed to this report.