ET Tuesday after lawmakers in the House and the Senate could not agree on a spending bill to fund the government.
Federal employees who are considered essential will continue working.
President Barack Obama issued a statement early Tuesday to military members and Department of Defense employees about the outcome of the shutdown.
... That's why I'll keep working to get Congress to reopen our government and get you back to work as soon as possible."
The shutdown appeared inevitable Monday night as House Republicans acknowledged they couldn't overcome Senate objections to a proposal that includes provisions aimed at derailing Obamacare.
For the second time Monday, the Senate rejected a House Republican effort to derail Obamacare by linking it to a proposal that would avert the shutdown.
Obama made a previously unscheduled statement to reporters on Monday afternoon, blasting the attempts by House Republicans to undermine Obamacare that he said threaten to harm the economy with a shutdown.
GOP sources told CNN that moderate House Republicans were trying to galvanize what would amount to a rebellion against Boehner and their tea party colleagues by defeating the latest proposed spending plan with attached anti-Obamacare provisions.
We expect more from our Congress," said Vick Temple, a worker for the Federal Aviation Administration who said he faced being furloughed in a shutdown.
Last week, the Senate voted down a House GOP plan to eliminate funding for Obamacare in a short-term spending plan to keep the government running in the new fiscal year that begins Tuesday.
That's it.
We may do it for a week.
Obama and Democrats reject what they call Republican efforts to use the threat of a government shutdown to force negotiations on the president's signature health care reforms.
A poll later showed public support for Congress at record low levels.
While the military will remain on duty, as will many essential public safety, health and welfare operations, many government offices will close.
About a quarter of the federal government's 3.3 million employees -- those frequently referred to as "nonessential" -- will be told to stay home from work until the shutdown is over.