Chris Christie as the Republican presidential candidate for 2016, Jeb Bush has been hinting that he might jump into the fray.
Though the pundits have pored over all of his liabilities, most importantly the damage that his older brother inflicted on the family name, Jeb Bush brings a lot to the table for 2016.
Republicans know that the electoral math will be extremely difficult for them in 2016 as more voters, particularly among Democrats, are likely to come to the polls and the electoral college map favors blue.
Bush can survive the pressure from the right in the primaries.
He has a rather conservative record on tax cuts and gun rights, one that would be quite appealing to the right.
Bush will be able to make a strong case in the primaries that he is as conservative as anyone else in the bunch.
Massachusetts Gov.
During the recent midterm primaries, the Republican establishment showed that money matters.
In 2014, tea party candidates fared very poorly when confronted with Republicans who had the backing of big money conservatives eager to support candidates who could win and avoid those whose devastating sound bites would energize Democrats.
He's got political courage."
While his conservative record will be sufficient to counteract Tea Party frustration, Bush will be able to sell himself as part of a Republican cohort that is seeking to bring new people into the Republican fold and who is sensitive to the ways in which social and cultural issues have changed where the party stands on these issues.
Like most Republicans, he will face Democrats pointing to the evidence of economic recovery under President Obama, and he has close tied to the business, anti-tax establishment faction of the GOP that hurt Mitt Romney in 2012.
The biggest obstacle that Jeb Bush faces is his last name.
The intense controversy over President Obama has redirected much of the political heat toward the Democratic leader, while the traditional waves of nostalgia about the last president have started to set in.
If he puts his full heart into this race, and it still remains unclear thus far that he will, Hillary Clinton and other Republican contenders should be worried that the 2016 election could be another year for the Bush family.