Twisters also brewed in Dallas and several northern Texas counties, according to the National Weather Service, with at least one tornado reported on the ground.
The deadly string of tornadoes that rampaged through central Oklahoma killed at least four people, injured dozens and destroyed homes and vehicles, officials said.
The twister injured motorists on I-40 and U.S. 81, Canadian County Emergency Management Director Jerry Smith said.
Police and fire crews are searching for a missing 3-year-old old child in Piedmont, northwest of Oklahoma City, according to an emergency services worker who asked not to be named because she was not authorized to speak to the media.
Another tornado was seen at Chickasha, about 40 miles southwest of Oklahoma City.
About 1,200 people packed a shelter in Newcastle, a bedroom community near Oklahoma City, during the storm, said City Manager Nick Nazar.
The tornado that passed through Chickasha also damaged several other communities, including Newcastle.
Sirens went off about 20 minutes before the storm pushed through, Charlton told CNN.
Some employees at the weather agency's Storm Prediction Center in Norman briefly took shelter as a tornado approached, a spokesman told CNN.
First responders were heading toward communities that have reported damage to homes, Fallin said.
KWTV broadcast images of destroyed and damaged homes in El Reno.
At Norman's Tarahumara Restaurant, which specializes in Mexican food, all 20 employees showed up for work, though none of the customers did for nearly two hours preceding the storm's arrival, said manager Juan de Leon.
Tornado watches were in effect Tuesday evening in Texas, Missouri, Arkansas, Oklahoma and Kansas.
The tornado that struck Joplin on Sunday killed at least 124 people, authorities said Tuesday, making it the deadliest single U.S. tornado since modern record-keeping began more than 60 years ago.
CNN's Dave Alsup, Matt Smith, Tom Watkins, Phil Gast, Dana Ford, Rick Martin, Sean Morris and Joe Sutton contributed to this report.