NEW YORK (CNN) -- Richard Serra stands in the Museum of Modern Art's Abby Aldrich Rockefeller Sculpture Garden, his hair as white as the marble floor.
So as you walk out of one, you're not thinking about the other."
"Torqued Ellipse IV" at one point is 32 feet across.
For a long moment, Serra takes in his own work.
When they take my work back out of here, this place is going to look like a peewee golf course."
See a gallery of images for perspective on the geometric line, shape and volume of Serra's work »
No guarded maestro, hiding methods and intentions, Serra is ready with virtuosic metaphor when given a chance to explain the torus of "Torqued Torus Inversion," gesturing, pointing, doubling back to be sure you follow.
When Yoshio Taniguchi designed MoMA's soaring new $890 million building between Fifth and Sixth Avenues for its opening in November 2004, this exhibition was already in the works.
Senior Deputy Director of Exhibitions Jennifer Russell says Serra used the size constraints of that breakaway wall in determining the height of the new pieces.
So the retrospective not only brings into major focus the place of this key U.S. figure in the world's conversation on modern art, but it also makes good on what MoMA Director Glenn Lowry likes to call presenting art "full-force."
Visitors may understand these three new works as something akin to steel mazes.
Serra says that "Band," more than 71 feet long, is likeliest to spur his next work.
...
It's still unknowable to me, so there are potentials in this piece that I haven't explored yet."
"I think welding is a form of stitching," Serra says.
"There was a need for me to get back to the process in relation to dealing with matter," says Serra, who is very clear on the point that his work is not Minimalist.
In something like the way the stages of Serra's career have evolved, the sixth floor and garden somehow prepare you for the second floor's majestic march of new, eerie, defining works.
"Sequence," "Torqued Torus Inversion" and "Band" don't seem to quite touch that reinforced floor.
He moves from work to work, consciously tracking himself in these pieces, intrigued, especially, when he can't fully grasp a work's effects on him.
"There's a redundancy in this piece," he says of the new "Band," happily intrigued.
In the work of Richard Serra, you are the subject.
Major sponsorship of the Serra exhibition at MoMA is provided by LVNH/Moët Hennessy.