Surveillance video appears to show a person -- identified by police and his family as Antonio Martin, 18 -- pointing a gun at an officer in a gas station parking lot in Berkeley right before the officer fatally shot the teen, Berkeley Mayor Theodore Hoskins told reporters Wednesday.
"We reviewed the video and it appears that there was a gun pointed at the officer before the officer fired," Hoskins said.
Gov.
Still, six to eight protesters were nevertheless arrested for blocking off part of I-170 in Berkeley, CNN affiliate KMOV reported.
County Police Chief Jon Belmar said the shooting was tragic, but stressed the teen pointed a gun "straight out" at the officer, who fired in self-defense.
Belmar said the officer, a 34-year-old, six-year Berkeley police veteran, was responding to a report of a theft when he pulled into the parking lot of a Mobil gas station in Berkeley shortly before 11:15 p.m.
The slain teen is not believed to have fired his weapon, a loaded 9 mm handgun that police recovered at the scene, Belmar said.
In the Martin case, video released by authorities showed a second man nearby who fled when the shooting occurred.
The officer involved was given a body camera before he left for patrol, but he wasn't wearing it during the shooting, possibly because he was distracted when a supervisor gave it to him earlier Tuesday, Belmar said.
Hoskins said this didn't bother him, in part because the city, with three cameras for its 31 officers, had just started training officers to use them.
Protesters late Tuesday and early Wednesday gathered around an ethnically diverse group of dozens of police officers, who stood between them and the scene.
One police officer was sent to an emergency room after injuring himself while trying to get away from the firework, Belmar said.
Before sunup, protesters thinned out, and those remaining stood calmly behind police tape.
Police said Wilson fired in self-defense as Brown charged him.
Berkeley is a city of about 8,000 people flanked by St. Louis International Airport to the west and Ferguson to the east.