In a speech Thursday, National Security Agency director Keith Alexander ceded he's worried there may be more leaks from Snowden.
Snowden has said he gave reporters information about secret surveillance out of concern these programs violate privacy rights and put too much power in the hands of government officials.
On Wednesday, U.S. Sen. Robert Menendez, D-New Jersey, said he would move to block Ecuador from two U.S. free-trade programs should Snowden go there.
"Our government will not reward countries for bad behavior," he said.
While he didn't offer specifics, Ventrell did say he'd expect "grave difficulties" in relations if Ecuador granted Snowden asylum.
"It's a risk to give asylum to Snowden because the United States, they could consider some economic sanction, including commercial sanctions," said Roberto Aspiazu.
While he has applied to Ecuador for asylum, that request has not yet been "dealt with" because Snowden is not in the country, Ecuadorian Political Affairs Secretary Betty Tola told reporters.
Assange said Snowden traveled from Hong Kong to Moscow on Sunday using documents provided by Ecuador.
Snowden and others have contended that he did America and the world a service by revealing information on secret programs, which they say wrongly impinge on people's right to privacy in furtively giving too much information to the U.S. government.
"I believe the irresponsible release of classified information about these programs will have a long-term detrimental impact on the intelligence community's ability to detect future attacks," Alexander said.
Commenting on New York Times reporting based on leaks related to confidential surveillance programs involving Iran, the poster compared the newspaper to WikiLeaks -- which enraged U.S. officials by disclosing thousands of confidential diplomatic cables.
Ars Techica said it could not be certain the poster was Snowden, but information revealed in the posts matches biographical information he has since publicly revealed.
Four years later, Snowden would provide news organizations in the United States and the United Kingdom with classified information he acknowledged copying and taking from his job as a computer contractor for the NSA in Hawaii.