(CNN) -- Long lines lingered in some key states after polls closed in most of the United States, but voters and election officials reported few snags in Tuesday's balloting.
Earlier in the day, those long lines prompted some voters to walk away in states such as Florida and Pennsylvania, election observers said.
Election officials said the voters were able to cast ballots for their intended candidate, and there were no further complaints once the machines were fixed.
As many as 64 of the monitors had been turned away before a judge ordered election officials to admit them, the local Republican Party chapter said.
One of the complaints about misbehaving electronic voting machines occurred in Millerstown, in central Pennsylvania's Perry County, where election officials said they recalibrated the unit after one voter recorded a video of it registering a vote for Obama as one for his Republican challenger, Mitt Romney.
Hirsch said he reported the problem to a volunteer poll worker who was calm and receptive to the issue and told him the machine had been having problems all day.
Greg Katherman, Union County's director of elections, confirmed there was an issue with one voting machine, but said there were no further issues after the machine was recalibrated.
A poll worker told them to leave their ballots in a bin, "and he was not friendly at all," she said.
Concerned her vote wouldn't be tabulated, she said she called the Cuyahoga County Board of Elections and was told the ballots would be manually fed into the machine later.
And in New Jersey, state officials allowed voters displaced by Superstorm Sandy last week to cast ballots electronically or by fax.
Voters still had to submit an application to vote electronically by 5 p.m. Tuesday, according to an executive order signed by Lt. Gov.
But they had until 8 p.m. Friday to submit the ballots, the order states.
Andrew Cuomo's last-minute decree that any voter could vote at any precinct, a move intended to help those displaced by Sandy, made it "a little insane right now" at the polling station at Public School 41 in Greenwich Village, a poll coordinator there told CNN Tuesday afternoon.