Senate Democrats are wrapping up their tenure in the majority by reigniting debate on some of the former President's most controversial policies with a long-delayed report on the use of torture - "enhanced interrogation techniques" - by the U.S. government.
But they are also trying to walk a fine line, by sticking to claims that valuable intelligence on al Qaeda and in the hunt for Osama bin Laden emerged from the harsh interrogations of detainees.
"I'll tell you this," Bush said after clarifying that he hadn't read the Senate report yet.
These are good people.
The report will detail 20 findings, plus 20 case studies that the Senate Democrats say illustrate CIA's misrepresentations about the program.
CIA employees, referred to by pseudonyms in the report, won't be identified; the CIA pushed for the pseudonyms to be redacted because other information in the report could be used to determine who they are.
"There's going to be nothing lost in this narrative," the official added.
Conspicuously absent from the Senate report is any examination of the role of high-level officials in the Bush White House who authorized the CIA program and who urged that more aggressive tactics be used.
The central conclusion by the Democratic-led Senate report, according to people briefed on the investigation, is that CIA employees exceeded the guidelines set by Justice Department memos that authorized the use and that the agency misrepresented to Congress and the White House what it was doing.
Feinstein was angry at the discovery that CIA employees had conducted searches of computers used by Senate staffers at a CIA facility to conduct their investigation.
"A lot is going on in the world, and he wanted to make sure that foreign policy implications were being appropriately factored into timing,"  Psaki said.
"We have to get this report out," Feinstein told the Los Angeles Times in an interview Sunday.
In an opinion article published in the New York Times last year, Soufan says "torture led us away from Bin Laden.
Also in dispute -- and some say unknowable -- is whether other methods could have produced the same or better information than what the CIA program produced.
For some Republicans and CIA supporters, there's still a dispute about whether techniques like waterboarding, used on three detainees, constitutes torture.
I understand why it happened.