The English language Buenos Aires Herald said Argentina's government had been silent on the death of Thatcher, who led Britain into the 1982 war over the Falkland Islands, a territory Argentina claims and refers to as Las Malvinas.
Argentine news agency Telem said most Argentinians would remember her for the Belgrano incident, while La Nacion said the few politicians who addressed her death also condemned the ship's sinking.
In its article on Thatcher's death, the English-language Santiago Times in Chile recalled the Iron Lady's support for the country's former dictator Augusto Pinochet, whose regime it said had supplied Britain with intelligence during the Falklands War.
It said Thatcher's "restoration of the British economy represented one of the last glorious achievements of Great Britain, or even Europe."
The South China Morning Post carried a poll on whether Thatcher signed away Hong Kong too easily.
South Africa's Times said the "divisive effect" of Thatcher's foreign policies were still felt in the country.
In his L.A. Times column, Jonah Goldberg wrote that Thatcher destroyed socialism rather than liberalism -- forcing Labour's Tony Blair to "to repudiate the party's century-long support for doctrinaire socialism and embrace the market" and U.S. Democrat Bill Clinton to follow suit.
"She strengthened Britain's ties with the United States, bolstered its military, supported the placement of intermediate-range missiles in Europe (an extremely controversial move at the time) and spoke out with undiplomatic boldness when she took offense at some countries' actions," it said.
Thatcher's legacy continued with Blair's "third way" and Clinton's policies, it said in its editorial.
Some newspapers had highlighted her forceful personality while "some conclude, however, that her policies were too radical, and that Thatcherism no longer offers the answers to the economic problems of today," David Crossland wrote.
In the United Kingdom, the Daily Mail called for a state funeral for "The woman who saved Britain."