Washington (CNN) -- On the 47th anniversary of the 1963 March on Washington on Saturday, the first sight on the National Mall for thousands of marchers was a four-story art installation that displayed four images and quotations of Martin Luther King Jr..
Michael Murphy, an artist from Georgia, created a four-story structure that celebrates King to honor King's spirit and to counter the rallies by Beck and the Rev.
America's political atmosphere at the time of the Beck and Sharpton rallies sometimes seems more toxic than the politics of 1963.
But King and the civil rights movement provided a moral vision that made it possible for the U.S. to find a way out of those ugly times.
Many protests got violent.
NAACP leader Medgar Evers was assassinated in Mississippi.
"You haven't got no time to cry no tears for no Jews," he called out at the Harlem Unity Rally.
Meanwhile, segregationists were pushing constitutional amendments to overturn the principle of "one man, one vote," to give state judges power over the Supreme Court and to give states the power to amend the Constitution without any federal involvement.
Segregationists in Congress even expressed hope that violence would ruin the march and the civil rights movement.
But amid what Garry Wills called America's second Civil War, the civil rights movement embraced the idea that the best way to gain rights was to appeal to everyone's hearts and meet "physical force with soul force," as King put it.
King understood that fighting violence with violence created only more violence.
King planted himself in front of Jones.
King's cause was moral, universal.
Everyone remembers King's speech at the March for four words: "I have a dream."
King warned that even the most innocent and decent people would continue to suffer.
So buck up.
They were not fighting for an earmark or a tax cut, loopholes from an EPA regulations, a Department of Education grant or a Fannie Mae subsidy.
Who's our King?
Who is appealing to his bitterest enemies?