Charleston, South Carolina (CNN)Police officers Saturday accompanied the hearse carrying the body of Walter Scott to his South Carolina funeral service, where hundreds of mourners celebrated his life and death as a catalyst for change in America.
The flag-draped casket of the U.S. Coast Guard veteran was wheeled inside the church as Scott's relatives and friends followed.
The death of Scott, who was black, at the hands of a white police officer was "motivated by racial prejudice," Hamilton said.
"There is gong to be change," he said.
Chris Stewart, an attorney for the Scott family, said the death represented more than an race issue.
"It's a human issue," he said.
They needed privacy, said Charleston Mayor Joseph Riley, who attended.
A passer-by caught the shooting on cell phone video, and Officer Michael Slager was swiftly charged with murder.
But one witness is speaking of a struggle before the shooting.
or 'What did I do?'
"
Criminal defense attorney Paul Callan said he believes Slager's defense will play up the reported scuffle in arguing that this is not a murder case.
Santana said he could hear the sound of a Taser in use.
"Mr. Scott never tried to fight," Santana said.
Charleston County Sheriff Al Cannon said Slager's wife, Jamie, who is eight months' pregnant, and his mother had a visit with him at the county detention center Friday.
In a statement, one of Slager's lawyers said the meeting lasted about an hour.
It shows moments before  the shooting, when things seemed to be going smoothly between Scott and Slager.
That was why he ran, lawyers for the family said after the funeral service.
On Friday afternoon, police met with a man who was in Scott's car, but the passenger's name wasn't in a police report obtained by CNN.
Scott family attorney Chris Stewart said he was a co-worker and friend.
It said: "Tradition, the Cowboys way."
CNN's Polo Sandoval and Martin Savidge reported from Charleston, and Ben Brumfield and Ray Sanchez reported and wrote in Atlanta and New York.