How many Ferraris were here?
This is Palm Beach County, of course, where money ain't a thing.
But there was even more money here this week: The resort was playing host to the the Republican Governors Association's annual meeting, always a magnet for major GOP donors, corporate fixers and political consultants looking to get some some face time, and maybe a contract or two, with the 31 Republican governors and governors-elect who now control state houses around the country.
Perry joined a half dozen other potential 2016 presidential candidates, including Chris Christie, Rick Perry, Scott Walker, Bobby Jindal, John Kasich and Mike Pence.
"And it's up to the point of, 'Well, I'm gonna loan you not only my name, but lend you some money as well.
All of this means that money is in the air at events like the one in Boca, which are as much about donor maintenance and business meetings as they are about electing governors.
At the hotel bar on Thursday, one foursome of Republican golfers proudly showed off a picture on their iPhones: They had been golfing nearby at The Bears Club, founded by Jack Nicklaus, and a cigar-chomping Michael Jordan played through.
The event attracted the usual pack of political press — including the "Hambycast" crew — eager to flee the freezing temperatures of Washington and meet sources, interview new governors and get an early bead on the Republican presidential race, which doesn't seem like it will start as soon as reporters would like it to.
Swarmed by reporters every time he showed his face, Christie swatted away questions about his presidential thinking and insisted that he just wanted to reflect on a winning cycle and celebrate with his fellow Republicans.
It's a pretty big win for Chris Christie and the RGA."
"People said to me during the campaign that I seem like Christie with a softer edge," he said.
"We were on the No-Way-In-Hell list for the RGA," he said.
"They were like, Christie have you been drinking?," Hogan chuckled.
"Maybe I'll watch them all when I retire," he said.