Colorado Springs, Colorado (CNN) -- Firefighters made little headway Thursday against a raging wildfire near Colorado Springs, Colorado, which has scorched close to 16,000 acres, destroyed 360 homes and claimed at least two lives.
Earlier, county spokesman Dave Rose told CNN that the Black Forest Fire, burning northeast of the city, now appears to be the most destructive in terms of property lost in state history.
The fire's evacuation area was 93,000 acres, affecting approximately 38,000 people and 13,000 homes, and the flames were estimated to have burned through 15,700 acres, said Maketa.
Among those who lost their home were husband and wife, Jaenette and Kristian Coyne.
"We literally had five minutes, and we left because it was, the flames were there," Jaenette Coyne told CNN's AC360 Thursday night.
But we know it was.
A lot of people here just don't know," Jaenette Coyne said.
There were nearly 30 chickens, several hundred horses, a handful of cows and a couple calves, and many alpacas and miniature horses, according to the Elbert County Sheriff's Office.
Paula Warren, one of thousands of residents forced to flee her home northeast of Colorado Springs, spoke about how difficult it was to leave and wonder if her home was all right.
A friend called her to say that her home was on an online list of residences that had been designated as destroyed.
For a person who had just been told their home was gone, Warren had a cheerful attitude when talking with CNN, laughing and saying that she was just going to go back home when she could, hitch up a trailer on the property, live in that and rebuild her house.
"You can't just take 'em to a Motel 6," she said.
Like Warren, CNN iReporter Mike Schultz lost his home.
So many people have suffered loss, and so we're just thankful that we're here and safe and that we're loved, and that we have so many people that are willing to help take care of us," she said.
Maketa said Thursday that 360 homes had been destroyed; another 14 were damaged.
Ken Litch, a 12-year resident of the area, watched Wednesday as the Black Forest Fire gained ground on his home.
Another major fire in the state is the Royal Gorge Fire, which is burning 55 miles to the southwest, on the other side of Colorado Springs.
The famous Royal Gorge Bridge that spans the Arkansas River is intact but needs to be inspected before it can reopen for tourists, a spokeswoman for the Royal Gorge Bridge and Park said.
Are you there?
Paul Vercammen reported from Colorado Springs; Dana Ford and Ashley Fantz reported and wrote from Atlanta.
CNN's Dan Simon, Greg Botelho, Shawn Nottingham and Dave Alsup contributed to this report.