(CNN) -- Roger Ebert was seldom at a loss for words.
He tweeted, Facebooked, corresponded with film lovers and held court with words long after his physical voice was silenced by cancer a decade ago.
Like many of his readers, I didn't always agree with Ebert, but I could understand his viewpoint.
Then, watch out, because he would say what many of us might want to.
"
Freeman was nominated for an Oscar, with Siskel and Ebert's praise probably playing a key role, since the film came and went quickly.
There had been film critics on TV before Siskel and Ebert -- Judith Crist and Gene Shalit among them -- and film criticism had existed since the dawn of the medium.
And, through their TV show, the two approached film criticism the way movie fans, freshly released from a weekend showing at the cineplex, might talk about what they just saw.
The pair -- forever immortalized as "The Bald One" (Siskel) and "The Fat One" (Ebert) -- worked for rival Chicago newspapers and were regularly at each other's throats before being paired on a review show, "Opening Soon at a Theater Near You," in 1976.
And as "Opening" turned into "Sneak Previews" turned into "At the Movies" turned into "Siskel & Ebert and the Movies," the two became equal parts knockabout vaudeville team -- frequently guesting on Johnny Carson and David Letterman's late-night shows, where their debates were very obviously unscripted -- and influential movie critics, willing to showcase all variety of new releases in a pre-Internet age when middle America wasn't besieged by all manner of movie minutiae and clips weren't a click away.
The show's format was frequently copied, but Siskel and Ebert were the undisputed kings of the genre -- triumphant to the point where they trademarked their "thumbs-up" summary judgment.
"People want instant gratification; they want to read or see his review the moment they decide to go to a certain movie."
"I think that the Internet has provided an enormous boost to film criticism by giving people an opportunity to self-publish or to find sites that are friendly," he said.
These days, when pop culture runs through the very capillaries of the Internet, it's easy to knock film critics.
Ebert, as the top of the heap, probably heard his name associated with these thoughts more than most.
"However you came to know me, I'm glad you did and thank you for being the best readers any film critic could ask for," he wrote in his last column, "A Leave of Presence," published Tuesday.
I'll see you at the movies."