Also Wednesday, France recalled its ambassador to Syria, the French Foreign Ministry said.
Andrew Tabler, an expert on Syria at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy, said air intelligence has been deeply involved in the eight-month-long crackdown by the Syrian government against protesters, a grinding civil conflict that the United Nations says has left more than 3,500 people dead.
Activists also reported damage at the complex in Harasta, an eastern suburb of the capital, Damascus.
He called air intelligence "one of the most terrifying secret service departments in Syria" and said such security entities will be targeted by defectors.
It was one of five actions reported by the opposition force, which has recently emerged as an important factor in the opposition movement as more and more soldiers have left the Syrian army.
"A clash between the Free Syrian Army and Assad's criminal gangs and his mobsters (the shabiha) in Douma, our Free Syrian military caused the Assad's gangs a lesson that they will never forget and heavy losses at the roundabout in the Douma municipality," the army said.
Opposition groups like the Free Syrian Army have been calling on the international community to help protect protesters.
The group's leaders, who had been exiled to Turkey, say they're directing a guerrilla war effort against the al-Assad regime, which acknowledges an increasing number of deadly attacks on its soldiers, including a bombing of a Syrian army tank near Daraa recently.
The Arab League, meeting in Rabat, Morocco, said al-Assad didn't stick by his pledge to release detainees, withdraw armed elements from populated areas, and allow unfettered access to the nation by journalists and Arab League monitors.
He said Syria hadn't fulfilled commitments to the league and the Turks to rein in the instability.
"The Syrian administration must know that public opinion in neither the Arab world nor the world at large can bear these heart-wrenching images forever.
Mohammed al-Ikhsafi, Morocco's ambassador to Syria, told CNN a demonstration occurred in front of his country's embassy in Damascus on Wednesday.
"I asked them to send in a delegation so I can listen to their demands and what they were protesting against.
Morocco's Foreign Ministry condemned the attacks on its embassy, the country's official news agency reported.
"The Syrian government will shoulder the responsibility on maintaining the security of its diplomatic mission and the respect and safety of its staff," said foreign affairs undersecretary Juma al-Junaibi.
On Monday, Syria's state news agency reported that Syria's foreign minister publicly apologized for the embassy attacks.
The number of civilians killed Wednesday was 20 -- 11 in Homs, 7 in Idlib, and 1 in each Daraa and Damascus suburbs -- said the Local Coordination Committee of Syria, a coalition of activists.