For the past several years, Palestinian protesters have often clashed with Israeli security forces in front of his house.
"(The Palestinians) were throwing stones, and the (Israeli) soldiers throw the tear gas.
According to six hours of raw, unedited video distributed by the children's rights advocacy organization Defense for Children International and reviewed by CNN, the two boys -- ages 17 and 16 -- were shot on the same patch of asphalt on the same day, the second victim 73 minutes after the first.
But an Israeli military spokesman say its forces fired no live rounds during hours of clashes on May 15.
CNN producer Kareem Khadder was filming the clashes in Beitunya on May 15.
At 1:45 p.m. May 15, Zayed's security camera caught the moment when one of the stone-throwing boys was mortally wounded.
Though Khadder didn't know it at the time, he was filming two Israeli security troops firing their rifles at the Palestinian protesters at the same exact moment when Nouwarah was shot.
However, Khadder's camera shows that less than 15 seconds after one of these gunshots, Palestinians were already racing to put the fatally wounded Nouwarah in the ambulance.
At 2:58 p.m., the security cameras filmed a second fatal shooting.
Doctors pronounced Salameh dead on arrival at the hospital, with a bullet wound that had pierced his back and exited his chest.
Nouwarah's father, Siam, told CNN he had expressly instructed his eldest son not to attend the Nakba protests.
His father showed CNN the bloody backpack his son was wearing when he was shot.
He then pulled a small used bullet stored in a plastic bag out of the backpack.
"The entire world should understand and know that my son was wearing a school backpack and leaving school when he was assassinated in cold blood," the grieving father said.
Regarding the CNN video of the Israeli security forces firing rifles at the Palestinian demonstrators at the moment when Nouwarah was shot, Lerner said the weapons being used had an attachment at the end of the barrel for firing rubber-coated projectiles.
Meanwhile, the U.S. State Department has joined several human rights groups calling for an investigation into the deadly incident.