Stores will open at 9 p.m. on Thanksgiving this year, reflecting a wider shift in the retail industry toward getting a head start on the biggest shopping day of the year.
Many other chains are open Thanksgiving Day, but their Black Friday sales don't start until midnight or Friday morning.
"It's one of few days retail employees get to spend with their families, but at this point there's no time to see family," St. Clair said in a phone interview.
"My issue is that Target and other retailers have done something they have never done before in opening on Thanksgiving.
More than 40 petitions have been launched on Change.org asking retailers including Sears, Target, Walmart and Kohl's to "give Thanksgiving back to families."
"Employees and customers alike are saying, 'Thanksgiving should be about celebrating with family, not shopping for the latest deals,' " Hill said.
Other comments in petitions against Target and other retailers focused on the importance of letting employees spend time with family.
Give these people the day off that they deserve," said another person who signed the petition "Wal-Mart: Move Black Friday Start Back to Friday."
"Family has always been important to me and Thanksgiving is all about family," Jennifer Ann said in her petition, "Target: Don't take away Thanksgiving."
This year, he's going to miss dinner altogether, she said.
Target and other big-box retailers say they're responding to consumer demands as best they can -- with employees in mind.
Walmart also was named in several petitions, though most of its stores are open 24 hours and 365 days a year, including Thanksgiving.
Most of our stores are open 24 hours and, historically, much of our Black Friday preparations have been done on Thanksgiving, which is not unusual in the retail industry."
But now, sales on those days are the norm, showing that over time, society grows accustomed to changes and demands of the free market.
Black Friday alone last year led to almost $12 billion in sales, so you can understand the employers stance on this issue," he said.
"I would suggest they are much less at risk because most of the shopping we see at Thanksgiving is in anticipation of Christmas.
Until then, St. Clair plans to be in the electronics section Thanksgiving night through the morning hours of Black Friday.
Are you a retail employee who has to start work on Thanksgiving for Black Friday?