Other than chess -- the history of which is well-covered elsewhere -- the most enduring table game of the last few centuries is backgammon, also known as "tables" early in its history.
Willard Fiske, author of the misnamed Chess in Iceland (which includes histories of many table games beyond chess), argues for Nard as the connection between tables/backgammon and the table games of antiquity, while David Parlett identifies its entry into Europe as Table, later Tabula, by way of the Byzantine Empire and then Greece.
I'll to her."
3.
Risk was first published in France in 1957 as La Conquete du Monde, or "World Conquest," the name under which Parker Brothers first published it in the United States.
4.
Part of the brilliance of Diplomacy is that it involves no luck whatsoever.
5.
The game known today as checkers or draughts likely traces back to Alquerque, a game that first appears in a 1283 treatise by Alfonso the Wise, summarizing the state of dice, table, and board games in that era.
Alquerque itself was related to the games known collectively as "merels," from the Latin merellus meaning a token or game piece.
6.
When early demand proved more than he could handle while holding down a full-time government job and some freelance work as an architect, Butts sought a publisher, eventually selling the rights to James Brunot, executive director of the President's War Relief Council, in exchange for a royalty on future game sales; Brunot tweaked the board, retitled the game Scrabble, and lost money for three years before his fortunes turned.
7.
First commercialized in 1952 by Parker Brothers, who gave it the name "Hex," the underlying game is played on a board of variable size but equal length and width where the game spaces are hexagonal, thus each bordering six adjacent spaces.
8.
The goal of TwixT, as in Hex, is to connect from one side to the other, but in TwixT the chain would be a series of pegs and connectors.
Entire contents of this article copyright, Mental Floss LLC.