Washington (CNN) -- As the Martin Luther King Jr. National Memorial was officially dedicated Sunday, speakers called for carrying on King's ideals and values and confronting issues including bullying and social and economic justice for all Americans.
Today's America can draw strength from that struggle, from King's belief that we are one people and from his refusal to give up, the president said.
"Let us not be trapped by what is," Obama said.
"I know we will overcome," the president said.
Perhaps, said the Rev.
"As we dedicate this monument, I can hear my father saying that oppressed people cannot remain oppressed forever," she said.
The memorial site, which features a striking 30-foot statue of King gazing out on the iconic Tidal Basin, lies between the Lincoln Memorial and the Thomas Jefferson Memorial on the National Mall.
"The very first time that I came to the site, I was almost overwhelmed," Martin Luther King III said.
"Let us not forget that he paid the ultimate price for our civil rights," he said.
Former CBS Evening News anchor Dan Rather said that while King's main battle was racial injustice, today's fight is against greed and for economic justice.
If King were here today, said the Rev.
Of those that spoke near the Lincoln Memorial that day, "I'm the only one still around," he said.
He recalled that King never asked protesters to do anything he would not do himself.
"Dr. King is telling you that we have changed.
We're better people.
Singer Aretha Franklin sang "Take My Hand, Precious Lord," a tune she said King often requested.
Sculptor Ed Dwight, who has made seven statues of King, objects to the memorial's depiction of the icon -- and to the artist chosen to create it.
"Martin Luther King is not only a hero of America, he's also a hero of the world," he said.
King's original words were: "If you want to say that I was a drum major, say that I was a drum major for justice.
I was a drum major for righteousness.
Because he was not.
"In no way do we believe that this paraphrased statement diminishes Dr. King's intent of the words he delivered," Jackson said.
Ambassador, former Atlanta mayor and civil rights leader Andrew Young said King was sensitive about his small stature, as he stood only 5 feet 7 inches.