Cairo (CNN) -- Egypt's prime minister appealed for calm and asked protesters to return to their homes Tuesday following four days of violence in Cairo and a day after the nation's Cabinet offered to resign.
For several hours, protesters hurled stones at police and chanted, calling for the downfall of the Supreme Council of Armed Forces.
Field Marshal Mohamed Hussein Tantawi, head of Egypt's Supreme Council of the Armed Forces, will address the nation Tuesday, according to Egyptian state broadcaster Al Masriya.
Military leaders still say they will hand over power to a new government when one is elected.
On the streets of Cairo, some protesters have gone further, shouting that they believe Mubarak is running the military council and, in fact, the entire country from prison.
The young men are students at American University in Cairo, according to university spokeswoman Morgan Roth.
The university is working with the embassy, Roth said.
Twenty-nine protesters have died in the clashes since Saturday, said Hisham Sheeha, spokesman for Egypt's Health Ministry.
Some political factions have vowed to hold a sit-in Tuesday at Tahrir Square, demanding the immediate resignation of the Supreme Council.
He said authorities started it, when they killed people "and put them in the street."
One person was killed and 60 others injured in that city, said al-Adawi, a Health Ministry spokesman.
Some people were arrested, Al-Sadani said, and clashes continued throughout the night.
"I resigned because of the events in Tahrir (Square), because of the political responsibility," al-Juindy said.
Saeed, the spokesman for the general prosecutor's office, said 127 demonstrators who had been arrested in Cairo since Saturday have been released.
"...
However, it alleged demonstrations have been violently dispersed and protesters have been arrested, detained and tortured "before being tried unfairly before military courts and convicted."
The council has also failed to address discrimination of women, according to the group.