(CNN) -- Two weeks.
The first of several Australian military planes, as well as two long-range commercial jets, resumed their search Saturday morning to find any trace of the objects, amid some skepticism that they or ships in the area ever will and, if they do, that whatever they find will be related to the missing aircraft.
"It could just be a container that has fallen off a ship," Abbott said during a visit to Papua New Guinea.
"This is going to be a long haul," he said.
And Malaysian and Chinese vessels -- including the icebreaker Xue Long, or Snow Dragon, as reported by China's official Xinhua news agency -- are also steaming to join a massive Norwegian cargo ship diverted there Thursday at Australia's request plus a motley collection of merchant ships heading to the search area.
They are designed to sound for at least 16 more days and could continue to go off for a few more after that, according to the company that believes it made the device installed on the missing plane.
But the ocean depths in the search area could make finding them very difficult, experts say.
NASA Administrator Charles Bolden said Friday that he's tasked the U.S. space agency to mine its existing satellite data and also try to capture fresh images that might aid in the search.
Hishammuddin said Friday that Malaysian authorities were awaiting permission from Kazakhstan's government to use the country as a staging area for the northern corridor search.
He said they had passed the information to investigators.
CNN hasn't confirmed that this reported transcript it genuine, and The Telegraph said Malaysia's prime minister said the transcript wouldn't be officially released.
Another wrinkle: Ahmad Jauhari acknowledged the plane was carrying a cargo of lithium-ion batteries, although he didn't specify the volume of the shipment.
There's no evidence the batteries played a role in the plane's disappearance, and Yahya said they are routine cargo aboard aircraft.
Malaysia's Hishammuddin had said items were deleted before February 3, but American investigators now say such deletions happened after that date.
Law enforcement officials aren't drawing any conclusions about the subsequent deletions -- or the earlier ones -- just two days into reviewing the hard drive substantial contents.
On Friday, Hishammuddin said Ukraine told Malaysia that background checks on its citizens aboard the plane had come back clear.
Hishammuddin said the 3½-hour meeting went as well as could be expected, but,"Although we answered most of the questions they raised, we could not answer them all," he said.
Omar said authorities have not contacted him and he is confident his son had nothing to do with the plane's disappearance.
CNN's Mitra Mobasherat, Sara Sidner, Barbara Starr, Kyung Lah, Mike Ahlers, Chelsea J. Carter, Greg Botelho, Brian Walker, Elizabeth Joseph, Evan Perez and Shimon Prokupecz contributed to this report.