After years of speculation and rare case reports, a study suggests that stimulant medication -- mostly used to treat attention deficit hyperactivity disorder -- may have played a role in a handful of cases of sudden, unexplained death in children and adolescents.
"There probably does need to be more careful monitoring, but the bottom line is that parents should not take their children off stimulant medication they're currently on and should not be scared to have their child go on a stimulant if that's what they and their doctors decide is the best thing for their child."
This compared with only two cases of stimulant use, or 0.4 percent, among healthy children who had died in motor vehicle accidents -- a group used to represent a general population of healthy children and adolescents.
However, the Food and Drug Administration in 2006 asked the manufacturers of stimulants, including Adderall, to add a warning to their label saying the medications should not be used in children with structural heart abnormalities or other heart problems.
Strattera, another medication approved for ADHD in children, is not a stimulant medication.
"Review of Novartis safety data has failed to detect an increased risk in sudden cardiac death associated with methylphenidate use."
They write that the study findings "should underscore that stimulant medications are not innocuous and that their therapeutic use requires careful diagnostic assessment, diligent safety screening, and ongoing monitoring.
Although the researchers are confident that the results are not due to any underlying factors -- children with ADHD often have asthma and heart conditions also linked with sudden death, and so these cases were eliminated from the analysis --"one can never be 100 percent sure that there aren't other unknown or undiagnosed issues," says Gould.
"The study adds very little to what we already know, i.e., that some children who receive stimulants experience sudden unexpected death," says Dr. Perrin, who was not involved in the study.
When deciding whether to put a child on stimulant medications, both clinicians and parents should weigh the seriousness of the situation, says Gould.
Untreated ADHD can be harmful in itself, leading to poor performance in school and increasing adolescents' risk for harmful behavior such as reckless driving, unsafe sexual practices, and substance abuse.
Future research should focus on new ways to detect which children are most at risk for sudden death when taking stimulants, says Gould, since not all cases seem to be detectable with routine screenings.
The study was funded by a grant from the NIMH and a contract with the FDA.