Washington (CNN) -- There will be plenty of legacy items by which to judge President Barack Obama.
None of these, in the long run, might be as important as his efforts to help the economy, which, ironically, has felt stronger just as Americans' faith in Obama to steer it has dwindled.
"If the economy moves in a positive direction and in the next two years we are really out of the sluggish economy that he started his presidency with, people will value that."
He'd also have more power to sway budget negotiations that could affect future spending on social programs such as Medicare and Social Security.
"I think if the health care law is in place and works, he'll be remembered really favorably," said Weatherford, comparing the law to the Great Society social programs enacted by President Lyndon Johnson.
But that's the lowest unemployment rate since Obama was first elected president, when the rate sat at 6.8%.
In hindsight, that 6.8% figure from 2008 seems low, either because Americans at the time were used to much lower jobless rates or because in the time since then we've become used to much higher rates.
The U.S. government took an activist approach to saving the economy.
"If the last two years of the Obama presidency are filled with a possibility economy, it's going to change the way we view the stimulus and his other economic programs," he said.
Temporary increases to food stamps authorized by the stimulus package only ran out at the beginning of November.
What we do know is that the national debt skyrocketed as the federal government spent furiously to save the economy.
Deficits have started to shrink as the economy has improved and Republicans in Congress have insisted on spending cuts.
Potentially rising interest rates and less help for the unemployed and the hungry as those stimulus programs run out could exacerbate the problem, which Obama has made clear will be a focus of his remaining time in office.
And I know I've raised this issue before, and some will ask why I raise the issue again right now."
More than health care or the Iraq war, the economy dominated the 2008 election — 55% of voters said it was the most important problem facing the country.
Perhaps one sign of an improved economy is that a different poll, conducted by Gallup in October, found that the economy is no longer the top concern of Americans.
"Presidents don't have total control of the economy.
But fair or not, that's what happens."