(CNN) -- On the London Underground there is a saying which has become synonymous with any tourist visit to the British capital.
Following Tottenham's 2-1 win over its city rival Sunday, the "gap" is seven points with Andre Villas-Boas' side now occupying third place and more importantly, a qualification spot for next year's Champions League.
Before Arsenal's astonishing comeback, which followed the 5-2 thrashing of Tottenham just over a year ago, it was those dressed in the blue and white which sang merrily about minding the gap.
It was Bale, of course, who proved the man for the occasion, firing Tottenham ahead eight minutes before the break with a coolly taken finish -- his 20th of the season.
Once Aaron Lennon had added a second less than two minutes after Bale's opener, Arsenal was facing an uphill struggle.
Yes, Arsenal did find a route back into the game after the interval when Bale inadvertently directed Per Mertesacker's header into his own net.
But Tottenham, marshaled by Michael Dawson and Jan Vertonghen, held out comfortably to claim a crucial victory in their quest for the Champions League and the domination of north London.
"Last year, by this time, Arsenal made the difference of seven points to Tottenham and we know how it finished," Villas-Boas added.
For Arsenal and its beleaguered manager Arsene Wenger, the gap shows no sign of narrowing any time soon.
Without a trophy in eight years, on the brink of an exit from the Champions League, the Frenchman is facing the most difficult spell since he arrived at the club in October 1996.
"It is difficult to struggle with defeat because of the effort we put in and the energy level we put in over the 90 minutes was tremendous.
But as fans got back onto the London Underground this evening following the contest, the question marks over Wenger's future remain.
Trailing 2-0 at the break thanks to strikes from Gonzalo Bergessio and Giovanni Marchese, Inter fought back in the second half to turn the game on its head.
"Luckily this team has thick skin and managed to fight their way back into the game.
Atalanta recorded a 2-0 win at Siena courtesy of Giacomo Bonaventura's double, while Torino and Palermo's game ended goalless.
"The game was very difficult because of the opponent's league predicament," coach Jupp Heynckes told reporters.
"We were a bit superficial; we weren't direct enough and not lively enough.
In Spain, Atletico Madrid was held to a goalless draw at Malaga as it missed out on the chance to close the gap on leader Barcelona.