(CNET) -- Verizon Wireless smartphone customers use 25 percent more data than AT&T iPhone customers, thanks in large part to new Verizon's new Android smartphones, a recent study indicates.
The comparison between smartphone data usage on Verizon's network and iPhone data usage on AT&T's network is important to note, because iPhone users have typically been viewed as the heaviest data users in the entire mobile market.
"Verizon's network is holding up really well as it adds more data traffic," said Ed Finegold, chief analytics officer for Validas.
That said, the total number of cell phone customers -- including those using feature phones and smartphones -- using Verizon data services is much less than the number of customers using these services on AT&T's network.
For example, 71.2 percent of all AT&T cell phone subscribers, which includes users of smartphones like the iPhone as well as feature phones, use data services, while only 43 percent of all Verizon cell phone users subscribe to data services.
And about 47 percent of their iPhone subscribers use between 200MB and 2GB of data with about 90 percent of those customers using less than 1GB of data per month.
Verizon Wireless smartphone subscribers have similar usage patterns to those on AT&T's network.
He speculates this difference is because Android users tend to be more hard-core data users, whereas the iPhone may be used more by casual users who like the phone because it's cool.
For $15 a month, new smartphone subscribers can get up to 200MB of data per month.
But executives have also said that Verizon will eventually move to a tiered pricing model.
According to the Validas report, a little more than 4 percent of Verizon's smartphone users consume more than 2GB of data per month compared with only about 2.5 percent of AT&T's iPhone customers.
T-Mobile only has about 22.3 percent of its cell phone subscriber base subscribing to data, and those consumers are only using about 120MB of data per month.
Sprint recently launched the first WiMax-enabled phone that can switch between its 3G network and the 4G Clearwire network.
"People who travel tend to be more mobile, and they also tend to be power users when it comes to mobile data," Finegold said.
© 2010 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved.