The "superbug" at issue -- carbapenem-resistant Enterobacteriaceae, or CRE -- is the latest and most difficult to treat in a series of superbugs that includes MRSA and VRE.
The FDA first alerted doctors using the scopes back in 2009 that they could be transmitting bacteria, even after proper cleaning, Reuters reported.
But -- remarkably -- this agency, responsible for regulating all medical devices, has yet to take any action, though its menu of options is broad, ranging from taking the scopes off the market to demanding the manufacturers improve their designs or upgrade their recommended cleaning protocols.
The FDA didn't even alert providers to the fact that the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is about to release a new guideline that includes the Seattle protocol.
Why?
Individual hospitals affected by scope-related CRE outbreaks have out of necessity rolled out creative decontamination protocols of their own that include exposing the scopes to a toxic gas and culturing the scopes and setting them aside for days while any bacteria grow.
Hospitals are generating their protocols without clear guidance from the FDA, which oddly chose the venue of the LA Times interview Monday to cast doubt on UCLA's new approach of using ethylene oxide gas to kill off any CRE still on used scopes.
What's more, hospitals and clinics generate a tsunami of medical records that contain information about how various medical devices are working on a daily basis, but researchers and the FDA have inordinate trouble making much of it useful, because the precise devices aren't clearly identified.
Taxpayers need our government to levy smart fees that are directed to fund the functions of key agencies like the FDA and the CDC, which we rely on to make sure medical devices are as safe as possible when they're introduced and to keep track of any problems on a continuous basis.
This is crucial to stop the community spread of CRE; in North Carolina, where three patients contracted CRE inside one hospital, 15 people actually brought CRE with them into the hospital rather than getting it there.