She was the driving force behind the formation of the Women's Tennis Association (WTA) in 1973, the same year she famously beat former men's grand slam champion Bobby Riggs in the "Battle of the Sexes" match in Houston.
The fledgling Virginia Slims tennis circuit for women professionals had been established at the start of the 1970s, but the leading players like King and Australian Margaret Court -- the all-time leading grand slam singles winner -- were still paid a fraction of the prize money available to their male counterparts.
It made such a difference," King told CNN.
"My first year playing -- 1973, my first Wimbledon -- I had no idea what the association was, but being American and being a bit older, Billie Jean again had the foresight to get us organized just in time," the Czechoslovakia-born Navratilova told CNN.
When Court won the 1973 title she received the same prize purse -- $25,000 -- as the men's champion.
King ignored him at first, but Court took up the challenge and played him in a match in California on May 13, 1973.
"
"I thought it would set us back 50 years if I didn't win that match," said King.
Prior to the WTA's formation, King had realized the significance of legislation passed through the U.S. Senate and House of Representatives and signed into law by President Richard Nixon in June 1972.
"Before that, young women were not getting anything, there was gender quotas -- like 5% in the medical school at Harvard -- there were really terrible gender quotas and also women could not get an athletic scholarship in the States," said King.
King was to play competitive singles for 10 more years after her 1973 heroics on and off the court, but injuries took their toll.
A firm believer in the team ethic, she played for and captained the U.S. in the Wightman and Federation Cup competitions, while King and her husband Larry were founding partners of World Team Tennis in 1974.
The fight she started for equal prize money in the grand slams took 34 years to reach its fruition when Wimbledon became the last of the four to fall into line in 2007.
Sharapova, who has become the highest earning female athlete in the world, acknowledged that she and the current leading players owe a lot to King.
He told me when I met him for the first time," added King, who was honored for her work advocating for the rights of women and the lesbian and gay community.
I really wanted to spend the rest of my life fighting for equal rights and opportunities for boys and girls, men and women," said King.
"Billie Jean has been my ultimate inspiration," Williams, who will start the defense of her U.S. Open title in New York next week, told CNN.
"I've stood up but I'm scared a lot.