(CNN) -- For the second time in five months, a U.S. soldier from a Washington military base is accused of committing atrocities against civilians in Afghanistan.
Also in 2010, three other soldiers "suffered dangerous public mental breakdowns" after returning from Afghanistan, with two of them shot to death by police, according to the Stars and Stripes military newspaper.
The base is "a rogue base, with a severe leadership problem," he said.
In December 2010, the Stars and Stripes military newspaper said the facility had gained a reputation as "the most troubled base in the military."
Barnes, who was assigned to Joint Base Lewis-McChord before his 2009 discharge, is believed to have fatally shot park ranger Margaret Anderson on New Year's Day.
While investigators said they had little insight into Barnes' mindset or motive, the woman with whom he was in a custody dispute said in court documents filed last year she was frightened to be in the same state with him.
Gibbs, who will be eligible for parole in 10 years, was the highest-ranking of five soldiers charged with being part of a rogue "kill squad" targeting civilians in 2010.
Instead, prosecutors said, Gibbs and a small group of rogue soldiers plotted to murder civilians.
"There was a group of soldiers in the 5th Brigade numbering in the single digits who did not behave with honor," Col. Barry Huggins of the 2nd Brigade, 2nd Infantry Division, who supervised the courts-martial, said last month in his first public remarks about the case, according to the News-Tribune.
Last month, two doctors at Madigan Army Medical Center were removed from clinical duties and assigned to administrative work, the Seattle Times newspaper reported, citing Army Medical Command officials.
Joint Base Lewis-McChord was formed in 2010 by the merger of Fort Lewis, an Army post, and McChord Air Force Base.
The primary unit on Fort Lewis is the Army's I Corps, according to the website, and the primary unit on McChord Air Force Base is the U.S. Air Force's 62nd Airlift Wing.
A U.S. military official, who asked not to be named because of the pending investigation, said the suspect is in his mid-30s and has served several tours in Iraq, although this was his first deployment to Afghanistan.