For the Vietnamese-Americans living in the Gulf Coast region, the oil disaster is especially complicated.
About 6,000 live within a two-mile radius in the neighborhood of New Orleans East -- distinguishing it, the area's priest says, as the greatest concentration of Vietnamese people outside of Vietnam.
Vien Nguyen sits in front of an altar to his ancestors and his Catholic faith.
He worries about the lack of job training and opportunities for a people who've worked in an industry that may suffer for God knows how long.
About 80 percent of Vietnamese-Americans in the Gulf region are connected to the seafood industry through jobs that include fishing, shucking oysters, packing shrimp, and running stores and restaurants, the priest and others say.
They'd already uprooted themselves and started over with nothing in 1954, when their country divided into North and South and they, as the Catholic minority living in Vietnam, ran from the Communist rule that took over the North.
Today, people wearing the traditional conical straw hats stoop in their cultivated yards or walk along streets with names like Saigon Drive.
It chronicles how the Vietnamese-Americans living in New Orleans East galvanized after Katrina, making theirs among the first neighborhoods to rebuild.
Grass-roots organizers established agencies to fight for assistance and empower people, including one for youth called the Vietnamese American Young Leaders Association of New Orleans (VAYLA-NO).
He's the 30-year-old deputy director of the Mary Queen of Vietnam Community Development Corporation (MQVN CDC), established after Katrina, and serves on the rapid response team created by Cao after the oil disaster.
"We had never been exposed to the Vietnamese community," says Thomas, the BP manager of government and public affairs for the lower 48 states and the Gulf of Mexico.
I told him to come in and talk about services," Nguyen says.
"
The hope, Nguyen and others say, is that grass-roots organizations will sprout up elsewhere to help meet the growing and often different community needs.
She's accompanying people to the BP claims office.
The up to $5,000 a month that BP is paying out to captains and boat owners is of little comfort to them, especially when there are home mortgages, too, college tuition payments and more.
Nearly 180 miles away, back over the Louisiana state line, Ngoc Nguyen is racing around with her clipboard.
"There's nothing else we can do," she says, refusing to ponder what the family's alternative would be if life doesn't get back to normal, and soon.
But Rep. Cao holds out hope that the Vietnamese community in the Gulf will pull through -- because it always has.
"It's an obstacle in life, and we will overcome it.