(CNN) -- Ten years ago, President Putin of Russia faced an embarrassing foreign policy defeat.
The Supreme Court called another round of voting, and voters dumped Yanukovych in favor of a politician, Viktor Yushchenko, who called for Ukraine's rapid admission to NATO.
Within a few years, self-destructive squabbling among Ukraine's new democratic leaders, as the economy stagnated, had discredited the "Orange Revolution."
As before, Putin makes clear his disdain for the demonstrators and his support for Yanukovych.
Is Putin-2014 the same person as Putin-2004?
By contrast, Russian troops in Crimea was the one thing certain to unite Kiev's factions, mobilize Ukraine's population and prompt rapid Western action on economic aid.
Even more perverse, invasion would throw away in one day two years' worth of reputational capital, accumulated from a string of unexpected foreign policy successes.
To those who have been raising the alarm about Putin's expansionist drive and wounded pride since before he came to office, there is nothing to explain: the dictator has shown his true colors.
What to make, then, of Putin-2000 who, when asked whether Russia might one day join NATO replied: "Why not?
Over the years, Putin acquiesced to U.S. bases in Central Asia after 9/11, shared intelligence with Washington, agreed to cut nuclear arsenals by two thirds, and defied his own Communist protesters to establish a route through Russia for U.S. military supplies to Afghanistan.
(With oil prices no longer rising, and global liquidity tighter since the 2008 financial crisis, Russia's growth slowed to just 1.3 percent last year.)
The costs of the Crimean intervention, in reduced investment and international isolation, will last longer than the immediate rally behind the flag.
Surrounding themselves with friends and colleagues with similar world views, they --deliberately or unwittingly -- cut themselves off from unwelcome information.
The result is a distorted view of events that is self-serving and black and white.
Other authoritarian leaders, such as Daniel Ortega of Nicaragua, have lost power after calling elections that they were sure they would win.
Yet, the information filter around Putin will make it hard for him to evaluate what is going on.
The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Daniel Treisman.