ATLANTA, Georgia (CNN) -- I'll never forget holding World War II medic Tony Acevedo in my arms.
I want to say more, but I can't."
Metz was one of the Nazi commanders who headed a slave labor camp known as Berga an der Elster, where 350 U.S. soldiers -- 80 of whom had been targeted for being Jewish -- were beaten, starved and forced to work in tunnels at a secret V-2 rocket factory.
More than 100 soldiers died at the camp or on a forced death march of more than 200 miles.
He shot one soldier, Morton Goldstein, through the head, execution-style, according to the survivors.
When the soldiers were on their forced death march, Acevedo asked to use his pen for a tracheotomy to save a soldier named George Buddeski.
Metz refused.
Buddeski died April 13, 1945, on the death march on what the soldiers call Hell's Highway.
When CNN first reported Acevedo's story in November, I had no idea it would lead to what I witnessed this weekend: The U.S. Army reversing course on six decades of silence and recognizing the Berga soldiers for what they went through.
The U.S. government in 1948 commuted the death sentences of Metz and his superior, Hauptmann Ludwig Merz.
When you read that document, it doesn't sit too easy.
When Metz and Merz were freed, the survivors felt the Army betrayed the war ethos of "leave no soldier behind."
As the survivors reached their 70s and 80s, many began wondering why the government still refused to recognize them.
Heading into last weekend, the six Berga survivors present knew a two-star general was being sent to meet with them.
Nah, he'll toe the company line.
It was a slave labor camp," Boles said.
I knew history had just been made, the legacy of the Berga soldiers preserved for all time.
I thought about Bernard "Jack" Vogel and Izzy Cohen, who were forced to stand without food and water for days, pushed to their deaths.
I had met with his 90-year-old wife, Florence, and their daughter, Nomi, months before.
When she was notified Izzy was a prisoner of war on March 16, 1945, one relative shouted, "That's just like Izzy to take the easy way out of war."
I thought about Martin Vogel, the brother of the man who died with Izzy.
"Are you the one who did the story on the medic, Tony Acevedo?"
He entered the Army so he could be just like his brother.
At the time his brother died such a horrific death, Martin Vogel was just a few hundred miles away.
I've listened to each one and put them in touch with Acevedo for answers about their loved ones.
I'm not the first to report on Berga.
You can scroll through Acevedo's diary and read the War Department document explaining why Metz and Merz were set free.
It was humbling when Boles, the two-star general, told me that my reporting and my colleagues on CNN television preserved the men's legacy, culminating with the Army recognizing them.
"Just as they never left their fallen comrades, we will never leave them," Boles said.
I wished the other Berga survivors were there, especially Acevedo.
My final message is to my generation and the next.
The greatest generation.
They're cut from a different cloth and we're losing them too fast.