(CNN) -- Microsoft's Bing search engine will not follow Google out of China.
Before this week Google had a 35 percent share of the Chinese search engine market, a nontrivial number in a country of 400 million Internet users.
The answer to that question is not simply about whether Bing stays in China.
Ballmer called Google's move to stop censoring in China an irrational business decision.
"In every country in which we operate, including China, Microsoft requires proper legal authority before we remove any Internet content; and if we remove content, we give users notice."
As it happens, the way Microsoft handles censorship in China has changed since it launched a Chinese version of its search engine and rolled out a Chinese-language blog-hosting service in 2005.
In February 2006, executives from Cisco, Yahoo, Microsoft and Google were summoned to a congressional hearing in Washington.
Cisco was under fire for selling technology to China that helped authorities censor the Internet.
Then why, human rights activists and legal experts asked, were they responding to requests made by Chinese authorities using no pretense of legal process?
When carrying out requests to censor entries on MSN Spaces (later renamed MSN Live Spaces), Microsoft's blogging and social networking platform, it would block pages from users on the Chinese network, but leave them visible to people viewing the page from all other countries.
We have to take it at its word that it's only responding to censorship requests made through a legally binding procedure.
While the initiative does not expect companies to make their local employees conduct civil disobedience or pull out of markets at the first sign of difficulty, the GNI does expect that companies will not comply with arbitrary requests and will seek to protect users from the kinds of surveillance that could lead to human rights violations.
Will Bing comply only with those censorship requests that have a clear basis in Chinese law and which are made through a legally binding, documented and accountable process?