"They have been with us at every moment when we've -- from 9/11 on -- in dealing with the sort of terrorist organizations around the world that threaten us," Obama said.
"For us to see the kind of cowardly, evil attacks that took place today, reinforces once again why it's so important for us to stand in solidarity with them just as they stand in solidarity with us."
Secretary of State John Kerry earlier in the day addressed the French people directly -- in both English and French -- expressing American solidarity in the face of the attacks.
White House Press Secretary Josh Earnest also pointed to France as a "stalwart ally" in the fight against ISIS.
Earnest added that top national security officials have been in touch with their counterparts in France and that the U.S. will provide resources to investigate the attack.
Johnson, speaking earlier in the day, would not say whether he is considering raising the terror threat level in the U.S., but highlighted the increasingly complex terror threat the world faces -- with more terror groups, but also "lone wolf" actors.
U.S. national security and intelligence agencies are rushing to see if they "missed any signs" or warnings of a terrorist attack against France, a senior U.S. official told CNN.
The official said the U.S. does not believe the attack suggests further attacks against Americans the U.S.
A U.S. official told CNN that French authorities are rapidly trying to find the alleged gunmen.
And when the magazine published more satirical cartoons mocking the Prophet in 2012, the White House questioned the magazine's "judgment" in September 2012.
Members of Congress also woke up to reports of the terror attack and some took to Twitter to condemn the attack.
My thoughts are with the families of those killed.
Sen. Joe Manchin (D-West Virginia) called the attack a "horrific situation" and said the U.S. needs to be "very vigilant" on MSNBC.
"Even though it's in France, it's an attack on us," Graham said.
CNN's Barbara Starr and Alexandra Jaffe contributed to this report.