The modestly budgeted movie -- about a poverty-raised orphan in Mumbai who goes on the Indian version of "Who Wants to Be a Millionaire" -- won awards for best drama, best director (Danny Boyle), best screenplay (Simon Beaufoy) and best original score (A.R.
"Your mad, pulsating affection for our film is much appreciated," said Boyle.
Another underdog, actor Mickey Rourke, won best actor in a drama for his performance in "The Wrestler."
Kate Winslet wasn't considered quite as much an underdog, but she still outdid the odds by winning both categories for which she was nominated: best actress in a drama (for "Revolutionary Road") and best supporting actress (for "The Reader").
After winning best supporting actress -- the first award of the evening -- she asked the audience, "You have to forgive me, because I have a habit of not winning things."
Not long after, being told to wrap it up, she said, "You have no idea how much I'm not wrapping up," before emotionally thanking a variety of people, including co-star Leonardo DiCaprio and husband Sam Mendes, "Road's" director.
The late Heath Ledger won the Golden Globe for best supporting actor for his performance as the Joker in "The Dark Knight."
Ledger's performance was widely praised and he is considered the front-runner for an Academy Award for supporting actor.
HBO's miniseries "John Adams," which dominated the Emmy Awards in September with 13 trophies, won four Globes: best actor (Paul Giamatti), best actress (Laura Linney), best supporting actor (Tom Wilkinson) and best TV movie or miniseries.
Fey later won for best TV comedy actress, joining her co-star Alec Baldwin (best TV comedy actor) as Globe winners.
Other Globe winners included Sally Hawkins, who won best actress in a musical or comedy for her performance in "Happy-Go-Lucky"; Colin Farrell, who took home best actor in a comedy or musical for "In Bruges"; "Vicky Cristina Barcelona," Woody Allen's latest, which won best comedy or musical; and "WALL-E," which won best animated film.
Jennifer Lopez, noticing a distinct rumble of chatter as she attempted to begin the show, demanded quiet with "Hello!
There were even a couple of TV no-nos on the live broadcast: "Wrestler" director Aronofsky humorously flashed Rourke a middle finger as Rourke talked about how hard Aronofsky worked the cast, and one of the "Slumdog" producers uttered the F-word upon seeing he was being rushed through his speech.
...
I think in that respect they should be embraced."