The shipping vessel's crew had expected to give depositions on Friday, according to a crew member who asked to remain anonymous because of security concerns.
The crew member who asked to remain anonymous said there were 14 crew members on board, plus the captain.
The crew member who asked to remain anonymous said via e-mail Saturday night that the captain in fact had been returned to the ship to command it during its move to anchorage in the bay.
U.S. State Department spokesman Patrick Ventrell on Friday confirmed the ship and crew's detention.
There is an active U.S. embassy in the country, however, and U.S. consular officials did visit the ship's crew members on Thursday night, according to the crew member.
The Venezuelan Embassy in Washington said that "this issue is being handled by our officials in Venezuela" and didn't have additional immediate comments Friday, spokeswoman Marielba Alvarez told CNN on Friday.
Arrest warrants have been issued for the entire crew, according to this crew member, who added that he believes that authorities mostly want to talk to the crew for depositions.
The customs brokerage manager said he had never seen a situation in which a ship was detained and searched in such a way, "but the authorities of this country must have their motives" for doing so.
Then the Venezuelan authorities had the crew unload all the ship's cargo so they could search it, and again didn't find any contraband, the crew member said.
The captain had declared the weapons on arrival in Maracaibo and got cleared to have them, according to the crew member.
On September 1, the crew was told the ship was under investigation for arms trafficking, and on Wednesday morning, the captain said the ship's crew was officially charged.
The sister of another crew member, who has been in regular contact with her brother and asked not to be identified for security reasons, said crew members have heard that the captain was charged with arms trafficking.
"We are in contact with the government of Venezuela on the matter, and are working to provide all appropriate consular assistance at the earliest opportunity," said a U.S. State Department official who spoke on condition of anonymity.
The crew member said life aboard the ship is tolerable, within limits.
Maybe we are wearing thin on the edges a little, but nothing bad."