(CNN) -- Fifty years after President John F. Kennedy's assassination, there are very few down-the-line defenders of the Warren Commission to be found.
Hoover later admitted: "We failed in carrying through some of the most salient aspects of the Oswald investigation.
To this day, the CIA says it did not have a relationship with Oswald and that it is not withholding anything important about the assassination from the public.
-- Both the CIA and the FBI failed to inform the commission about their various arrangements with the Mafia, another prime suspect in Kennedy's killing.
-- A surprising number of first-hand, close-in witnesses from Dealey Plaza on November 22 were never interviewed by the commission.
Thus, the Warren Commission failed to find the full truth when the trail was hot, and when most Americans would have welcomed the most thorough possible investigation, even if the process was lengthy and costly.
If we could go back in time, maybe it would be possible to figure out why the CIA was so interested in Oswald or why the FBI was so responsive when Oswald demanded to see its agents while he was in a New Orleans jail in August 1963.
Lee Harvey Oswald almost certainly was the man who killed President Kennedy.
Contrary to theories that float on the Internet, the pictures were not doctored.
And the final bullet that hit JFK in the head came from up and behind him, not the front.
A homemade paper bag was left on the sixth floor, and the employee who gave Oswald a ride to the depository on the morning of November 22 testified that Oswald was carrying a parcel wrapped in brown paper that Oswald claimed was "curtain rods," but which just as easily could have been a disassembled rifle.
Oswald was the only employee found missing from the depository a short while after the assassination.
At the end of his rope on November 22, 1963, Oswald had left his wedding ring and most of his money behind for his wife Marina and his two young daughters.
Had Oswald not been killed by Jack Ruby, we probably would have learned as much in a few weeks or months.
So much time has passed that we may never know, but our one chance to discover more is in the release of thousands of additional pages of memos relating to the assassination, including hundreds of items from the CIA.
The next president will rule on any requests from the CIA and other agencies that materials be withheld or redacted after 2017.
Transparency cannot bring President Kennedy back, but at long last it can help America to come to terms fully with November 22, 1963 -- and perhaps to prevent similar events in our future.
The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Larry J. Sabato.