The Amazon rainforest covers a huge area, roughly half as large as the United States, with around 60% of it in Brazil.
Last year saw the lowest annual clearance since yearly INPE surveys began in 1988 and Brazil is aiming to reduce deforestation even further to 3,500 square kilometres annually by 2020.
"The changes in the new Forest Code will reduce this protection.
Cattle ranching is often used to guarantee the ownership of the area by land grabbers," she said.
The power of the rural lobby is acknowledged by those close to the Brazilian government but the environmental fears are also rejected.
"The new proposal includes all the government's requirements.
Carvalho said farmers must keep 80% of their forested land -- they will only be able to clear 20% -- and may have to use some of their land for reforestation.
The pop singer, Sting, and his wife Trudie Styler, set up the Rainforest Foundation in 1989 after seeing the destruction of the Amazon rainforest and its impact on indigenous peoples.
Spring 2012 also marks a significant junction half a world away in Indonesia which has significant forest areas.
It called for the establishment of an "independent institution for a national monitoring, reporting and verification system," a two-year moratorium on all new concessions for forest clearance and enforcement of laws on illegal logging.
Greenpeace says there are major loopholes in the Indonesian moratorium, saying the safeguards are inadequate with no review of existing concessions, and criticizes the lack of a good monitoring system.
"In short, in our opinion and analysis, the moratorium has not been working well in halting deforestation in Indonesia," said Yuyun Indradi, Greenpeace forest campaigner in Indonesia.
"We must attain both development and the management of our forest -- simultaneously," he said.
These maps will also facilitate the resolution of decades-long problems of land use and land tenure."
"Reliable monitoring and information are essential for protecting forests," said the institute's Fred Stolle.