HONG KONG, China (Reuters) -- Paul Lee got his liver from an executed Chinese prisoner; Karam in Egypt bought a kidney for his sister for $5,300; in Istanbul Hakan is holding out for $30,700 for one of his kidneys.
A friend told him about a transplant hospital in China's north eastern Tianjin city and he signed up for a place.
Demand for kidneys also exceeds supply, and that has given rise to organ trafficking and a black market for rich people and "transplant tourists" who travel to poor countries to buy body parts from people with few other routes to a better living.
Any transplant procedure involving a living donor carries risks for the donor -- especially for liver transplants which involve removing part of the donor's liver.
In the transplant trade, the recipient need not worry about, for example, exposing a living relative to that risk.
Only 20,000 transplants are carried out in China each year.
Excluding China, Asia has fewer than 200 livers donated by people ahead of their death each year, said Lo Chung-man, professor of hepatobiliary and pancreatic surgery at the University of Hong Kong.
Pakistan, where trade in human organs is not illegal, is turning into a "kidney bazaar", said the chief executive of Pakistan's Kidney Foundation, Jaffar Naqvi.
In May police arrested nine people, four of them doctors, for abducting people, drugging them and stealing their kidneys for transplant operations.
He said a doctor found him a man willing to sell his kidney for 30,000 Egyptian pounds ($5,300).
He said doctors usually help in finding people willing to sell their organs from their patients' lists.
"It is an annoying and a regrettable situation.
The union has been pushing for legislation to regulate organ transplants, with a draft bill including heavy fines and a prison sentence for those involved and a ban on transplants between people of different nationalities.
Hakan, a 27-year-old security guard in Istanbul with two young children who also requested only his first name be published, told Reuters he received five or six offers from Turkey and Germany, offering 10,000-15,000 lira ($11,600), but he's holding out for 40,000 lira.
E-mail to a friend