(OPRAH.com) -- At first glance, Jeanne, Amy, Nikki and Desiree don't seem to have much in common.
Jeanne, Amy, Desiree and Nikki were all born into the Tony Alamo Christian Ministry, which, some say, is a cult.
Ex-followers say that by the late 1990s Alamo was living in this sprawling compound with more than a dozen women, some of whom he called his "spiritual wives."
Jeanne says that when she was 15 years old Alamo, who was 59 years old and her pastor at the time, forced her to become his spiritual wife and have sex with him.
Desiree says Alamo then forced her to have sex with him.
Despite pressure from family members and friends who still belong to Alamo's church, they testified against their former leader.
"Tony Alamo said God appeared before him in his body and told him that he needed to go spread the Lord's message or that he would surely die," Lynn says.
"Susan Alamo actually operated a television ministry," Lynn says.
Alamo reportedly put his wife's dead body in his dining room, and former church members say he made men, women and children pray over her corpse for almost two years.
Over time, Alamo began to exert more control over members of the Tony Alamo Christian Ministry.
"I don't know when girls reach puberty.
Jeanne, Amy, Nikki and Desiree say that when they lived in Alamo's Arkansas compound, he controlled every facet of his followers' lives, and threatened violence and eternal damnation if they dared to disobey him.
Jeanne, Amy, Desiree and Nikki say that when Alamo set his sights on a young girl in his congregation, her parents couldn't say no.
"My mom had told me the only person I was going to marry was Tony Alamo," Amy says.
Four days after Alamo exchanged vows with Jeanne, his eighth "wife," she says he made her have sex with him.
"I didn't know about sex.
Isn't this wrong?'"
One afternoon, Nikki says she fled the compound.
"He sent every person out to look up and down the highways," Nikki says.
The Cokers offered Nikki a change of clothes, a warm bath and a bed to sleep in.
I felt a little bit safe," Nikki says.
"Tony Alamo has no secret world or child brides.
Subscribe to O, The Oprah Magazine for up to 75% off the newsstand price.
TM & © 2011 Harpo Productions, Inc. All Rights Reserved.