Last week, the U.S. Federal Trade Commission wrote a letter saying ICANN has long failed to provide safeguards that protect consumers from online swindlers and help cybersecurity officials catch such crooks.
In the letter, the FTC also criticized a major ICANN initiative that would let Internet users run their own domain-name extensions, to accompany .com, .org and others.
As for the domain expansion, ICANN officials say they are working to improve the data they can provide to governments and police, and that they have stringent rules in place for who can register which extensions.
At the helm of this 23-year-old organization is ICANN president and CEO Rod Beckstrom, a confident and excitable executive with a helmet of long blond hair.
Proposals for new Internet initiatives are often handed to ICANN by various Internet registry organizations, and the ICANN board votes on each.
With the Stop Online Piracy Act in the United States or systems in China and other Asian countries proposing major changes to who is responsible for what information is posted online, ICANN has to pick its battles and juggle hundreds of competing interests.
"ICANN stays neutral, and it has to keep running," Beckstrom said in a recent interview from his office here in Silicon Valley.
However, ICANN has a fairly small role in this transition from Internet Protocol version 4 to 6, ICANN chairman Steve Crocker said in a phone interview.
ICANN officials say its own initiatives, such as .XXX and the global domain expansion, are controversial but necessary as the Internet keeps growing.
"We don't have the authority of being a government," he said.
"If people (in national government) would take time to listen as much as they postulate their views, then we would have progress," Curran said by phone last week.
ICANN said last week it is searching for a replacement.
"The Internet doesn't just happen," Cerf said by phone.
And it's hard to do."
Cerf said he believes governmental organizations, like ICANN, will need to continue to adapt.
As new demands and stakeholders emerge, the Internet and its stewards will find obstacles, whether it's an overzealous government or the speed of light.