At almost any other school in the country, the 11-year-old friends would be in fifth grade.
The move to do away with grade levels throughout the Adams County School District began three years ago.
"Every single student is getting an individualized education," said Hodgkins Principal Sarah Gould, who helped usher in the reform at her school two years ago.
Children work at their own level in each subject and must demonstrate proficiency in various learning targets, achieving a score of 75% or higher before they're allowed to move on to the next level.
Unlike traditional schools, students at Hodgkins can move up a learning level anytime they're ready, not just at the end of the year.
"The time is right for a system that focuses on individual students and lets them progress at their own pace," said education researcher Robert Marzano, who is helping the district develop standards-based learning, a system that was first introduced in the 1960s.
In the last decade, as demographics began to change, standardized test scores fell, leading the district to be placed on an academic watch list.
High school teachers were among the first to embrace the idea, realizing students would have to have mastered material before moving levels.
Standards-based learning in the Adams County School District is currently in place in kindergarten through ninth grade, and will be integrated through all high schools by 2014.
The organization's executive director, Wendy Battino, said that in order for standards-based learning to work, schools must have strong leadership and shared vision.
Of the approximately 300 schools that have attempted to enact this system, Battino said, half haven't been able to stick with it.
And since school board members are are limited to two four-year term limits, the unanimous support may wane if standardized test scores don't improve.
Principal Gould is quick to point out that the initial drop in test scores was expected, since many kids were placed in lower levels to make up for gaps in their educations.
Discipline problems, Gould said, have decreased 76% in the past two years -- a sign, she said, that the system is working.