(Real Simple) -- I live in Chicago, and one of my best friends, Phyllis, lives in San Francisco, so we aren't able to see each other as often as we would like.
"You're going to love this place," I kept saying, and Phyllis, in turn, kept saying, "Oh boy."
"We can have martinis and I'll cook, OK?"
Suddenly I remembered that my neighbor Suzie had given me a recipe, saying, "I really liked this, and I think you will, too."
I'm going to make it!
But now Suzie's recipe seemed just right for the occasion, even though neither Phyllis nor I, experienced (and good) cooks both, knew exactly what a "ragout" was.
Then Phyllis lowered the volume on the stereo and came to sit down at the kitchen table.
Phyllis is an extremely honest person, often quite blunt.
Instead, what she said, in a very small, tremulous voice, was "I don't think you liked what I gave you for your birthday."
She's good at coming up with things you never would have thought of for yourself but instantly love.
Many of the pages represented a time of life when I was desperate and unhappy; I had written to her of pain and grief and fear and frustration, because she was my dear friend and I needed to talk to her, if not in person, then on paper.
I said, "It's not your gift I didn't like -- it was me I wasn't so crazy about."
Phyllis reminded me that at one point she had offered me my letters back and I had told her I didn't want them, but she decided to go ahead and give them to me anyway -- with the best of intentions.
The person who wrote those letters spent an awful lot of time feeling bad: about herself, about choices she had made, about life in general.
And some time after my birthday, I found myself paging through Phyllis's gift.
I told Phyllis that I was sorry for how I had made her feel and that I hadn't told her I had come to appreciate the gift.
But the gift Phyllis and I enjoyed that day would never have happened if we had been out in public.
Sometimes that place is the stomach.
And sometimes, the best times, it's both.