Husien Shehada, at left with his brother, Samer, was shot dead by Miami Beach police on June 14.
Officer Adam Tavss, a 34-year-old former history teacher with three years on the force, was involved in both police shootings, the first in Miami Beach since 2003.
Although it is not yet clear whether Tavss fired one of the shots that killed McCoy, questions are being raised as to whether the officer was cleared for patrol duty too soon after the first shooting.
The families of Shehada and McCoy are asking the Justice Department to investigate.
The Miami Beach department's standard operating procedure for use of force, a copy of which was obtained by CNN, states that any officer involved in a fatal shooting must be assigned to administrative duties for at least 72 hours.
Each of the nation's 20,000 police departments sets its own policy for police involved in shootings and fatalities.
A study by the Justice Department's National Institute of Justice found that officers involved in fatal shootings can be affected for months afterward.
"In the days, weeks and months that follow a shooting, officers may suffer adverse reactions such as sleep interruption, anxiety and depression," a report on the study said.
Police officers across the country train on how to make difficult split-second decisions on the use of deadly force.
Husien Shehada and his brother, Samer, had come from Virginia to spend a long weekend with their girlfriends in Miami Beach.
In a color security camera tape released by the Miami Beach Police Department, it appears that one of the brothers was carrying something under his shirt, holding it with his left hand.
Samer Shehada said he and his brother were cooperating.
One witness told CNN that when Tavss approached the brothers with his gun drawn, the brothers were belligerent.
...
Samer Shehada said that neither he nor his brother was carrying a coat hanger, much less a gun.
McCoy was shot dead by police.
Police found a gun several days later in Biscayne Bay, but they say they don't know if it belonged to McCoy.
Contini said Tavss should be in jail.
"In fairness to the officer, you don't put him on the street, with a gun and a badge, to be in this situation without allowing for a period of decompression -- for the officer's sake, to get some help," Contini said.