That photo, as well as the others depicting detainee abuse inside Abu Ghraib at the hands of U.S. troops, came to symbolize "America in the eyes of the world at that time," said CNN chief international correspondent Christiane Amanpour.
Military commanders urged him to fight the release of the photos, fearing it would endanger the lives of U.S. soldiers.
...
A year into the Iraq war, the American public had grown increasingly uneasy about the direction of the war, and the Abu Ghraib photographs gave anti-war protesters the ammunition they needed to rally around their cause and question Bush administration policies.
A CNN/USA Today/Gallup poll immediately after the photos were released showed that nearly three-quarters of Americans said the mistreatment of the detainees was unjustified under any circumstances.
"The American people said that they wanted their good name, the name of their country, the influence and credibility of their country's standing, to be restored in the rest of the world," she said.
They showed front-and-center what human rights groups had been saying for months: that the Bush administration was abusing prisoners within U.S. custody.
...
The prison pictures just really made us speechless."
Just days after the photos became public, American contractor Nicholas Berg was beheaded -- with his executioners saying they were retaliating for Abu Ghraib abuses.
The ACLU said the Pentagon had agreed to release a "substantial" number of photographs by May 28.
He has said that the "enhanced interrogations" of detainees worked and has opposed the release of the latest round of prisoner abuse photos.
"They can conduct all the violence they want without the release of these photographs," she said.
He said the liberal left is trying to use the photos "as a vendetta against the Bush administration."
"And in that process, what they're doing is essentially smearing the country as a country that condones detainee abuse and condones the torture, when in fact we don't," he said.
I think you have to think about what's the right decision for the president and assume good policies ultimately make good politics."