Blair, West Virginia (CNN) -- We're at the peak of Blair Mountain in the middle of southern West Virginia.
Their protest signs -- "Save Blair Mountain" and "Abolish Mountaintop Removal" -- poke through the leaves.
The 50-mile march is re-creating the 1921 March on Blair that led to a bloody battle between thousands of coal miners and coal company supporters.
"If you stand for preserving our cultural heritage instead of destroying it, you stand for Blair Mountain," Chuck Keeney said to his followers before he led marchers out of Marmet, West Virginia, last week.
But this is coal country, where families and fortunes depend on coal jobs, and most people who live here believe the opposite of what Keeney says.
"Why don't they get a job, instead of taking ours," one young coal miner watching from his porch asks.
"I just don't want to see coal mining that destroys rivers, drives away the biodiversity of such a beautiful place and also drives away other jobs that could be in place of coal mining."
He lost his job when the coal company near his home was denied a mountaintop removal mining permit by the Environmental Protection Agency.
The retired miner believes more miners would be involved in this march if they weren't afraid.
"Welcome to Coal Country" says a sign greeting the marchers as they cross the Logan County line.
A toddler at her feet screams, "Go home, go home," as the long line of marchers file by silently.
We have met with Kish before and visited a mountaintop removal site with her.
We just told them to go home or leave our state alone.
One of the speakers is Robert Kennedy Jr., an environmental activist and son of the late Sen. Robert Kennedy.
Smutko is the son of a miner.
The new "March on Blair Mountain" ends in song and celebration at the top of the mountain.
They attempt to walk out to the edge of a mountaintop removal site that has already encroached on the historic battlefield.
March organizer Chuck Keeney sums up the march as a success for raising awareness, but wants to do more to make sure there is no mountaintop mining of Blair.