Washington (CNN)Republicans poised to take control of Congress are already threatening to kill what could turn out to be President Barack Obama's most significant second-term achievement: a nuclear deal with Iran.
"Like North Korea in the 1990s, Iran will use a weak deal as cover to get nuclear weapons," said Illinois Republican Sen. Mark Kirk, a prominent skeptic of the negotiations.
It would also mark a stunning diplomatic breakthrough after 35 years of estrangement between Washington and Tehran and represent a major advance on one of the world's thorniest non-proliferation problems.
They fear the mullahs will pocket sanctions relief and then cheat their way to a nuclear bomb.
And Kirk has already pledged to mobilize the new Senate behind legislation he wrote with Democratic Sen. Robert Menendez which would target Iran's oil industry with sanctions and provide a "diplomatic insurance policy" he says would result in a "strong deal" to reverse Tehran's nuclear program.
They contend that a bad deal is now more likely because the administration has been too eager to make concessions to Iran.
But the administration has long warned that new sanctions would upend its diplomacy and it denies accusations that Obama plans to go around Congress.
The precise change is in the leader's office.
The White House has already won one skirmish over Iran.
Obama will not have that safety net in the new Republican Senate that convenes in January, and backers of an agreement fear even the threat of tougher action.
"At the end of the day, the president needs to lift sanctions through Congress in order to make a deal possible."
The White House has already shown it is ready to play political hardball over Iran, warning last year that anyone who opposes the deal is effectively backing a march to war with Iran.
Instead, it wants the deal between the permanent five members of the UN Security Council, Germany and Iran to lengthen the period of time it would take Tehran to dash towards a bomb.
"We will not let Iran get a nuclear weapon.
Incoming Republican Senate Foreign Relations committee chairman Bob Corker will be a vital player, as he has voiced skepticism of the president's Iran diplomacy in the past, while being more pragmatic than other Obama critics on sanctions.