Aung San Suu Kyi is the very embodiment of Myanmar's long struggle for democracy.
Now, she will participate in Myanmar's next elections, Nyan Win, the spokesman for her National League for Democracy, said Friday.
Known as the "lady" in Myanmar, Suu Kyi has been compared to former South African President Nelson Mandela, who spent a chunk of his life in jail for fighting apartheid.
In an interview with CNN several years ago, Suu Kyi, in fact, likened Myanmar's plight to South Africa's former brutal race-based system.
The daughter of Gen. Aung San, a hero of Burmese independence, Suu Kyi spent much of her early life abroad, going to school in India and at Oxford University in England.
When Suu Kyi's mother died the next year, Suu Kyi vowed that just as her parents had served the people of Burma, so, too, would she.
One of them was Nyo Ohn Myint, who participated in the 1988 protests as a college professor and now serves as one of the leaders in Suu Kyi's National League for Democracy.
"She is more than her father's daughter," he told CNN.
Suu Kyi, meanwhile, became the recipient of several human rights prizes and was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 1991.
But Suu Kyi refused to turn back and was detained in her minivan for almost two weeks.
"That's a skill I barely see in other people," Myint said.
But she said she knew that if she left, she would never be allowed to return.
Myint recalled calling her to express his condolences after Aris died in 1999.
"Maybe we are good at politics," Suu Kyi told Myint.
One day, maybe, people will see her canvases.
Even when Cyclone Nargis devastated Myanmar in May 2008, Suu Kyi was not allowed to leave her house, though trees were crashing down all around her.
The following year, Myanmar was again propelled into the headlines by a bizarre incident involving an American, John Yettaw, who improvised flippers to swim Inya Lake to Suu Kyi's compound.
She has clung to her dream of democracy, peace and freedom for Myanmar's 50 million impoverished people, they say.