(CNN) -- There's a standard Atlantic City itinerary: arrive at one of the many casinos along the Boardwalk, head straight for the card tables and slot machines, drink some complimentary cocktails and proceed to empty your wallet.
There are a myriad of eating, drinking, sightseeing and shopping options, both inside and outside the casinos.
You might even chat with some regulars at places such as Culmone's (2437 Atlantic Ave.; 609-348-5170), a pleasantly seedy establishment a few blocks off the Boardwalk.
The Knife and Fork Inn (3600 Atlantic Ave.; 609-344-1133) was a Prohibition-era speakeasy and restaurant.
Today, visitors can take guided tours inside the novelty pachyderm.
Admission is $8 for adults, $4 for children ages 3 to 12, free for children younger than 3.
Admission is $7 for adults, $4 for children ages 4 to 12, free for children younger than 4.
The gently sloping beach along the Atlantic City Boardwalk is surprisingly appealing and clean.
It's located right on the waterfront at historic Gardner's Basin, where you can dine at dockside restaurants and check out the Atlantic City artists' colony.
There are two art park locations, both an easy walk from the casinos, one between Martin Luther King Boulevard and Indiana Avenue and another on the Boardwalk at California Avenue.
This year's Atlantic City Food and Wine Festival takes place from July 25 to 27 at Caesars and features copious amounts of food, drink, parties and cocktails as well as talks and demonstrations from celebrity chefs.
There is plenty to do inside Atlantic City's casinos besides gambling.
The Pier Shops at Caesars is another area where you can spend a few hours away from the casino floor eating, shopping or watching The Water Show, a Vegas-style water, light and sound extravaganza that pops off once every hour (check with the hotel first, it is occasionally out of service).
This summer, free events such as a concert by country singer Blake Shelton (July 31) and AVP pro volleyball (September 5-7) will take place along the Boardwalk.
A diverse mass of humanity descends every summer, from Indian-American parades to teenage skaters to extended families from Ohio, all enjoying the sea air perfumed by the scent of fried dough and cotton candy.