They were husbands and fathers, brothers and sons.
Drones.
Without warning, the aircraft unleashed a volley of missiles that struck the tent, killing eight people.
U.S. Drone Strikes in Pakistan."
In some of the attacks, it says, the victims weren't members of militant groups like al Qaeda or the Taliban, but just ordinary civilians, like the workers in Zowi Sidgi.
Made public the day before Pakistani Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif is due to meet U.S. President Barack Obama in Washington, the report calls for a series of measures to bring the drone program in line with international law.
"The government of Pakistan believes drone strikes are against international law and the sovereignty of Pakistan," Chaudhry told CNN.
"International opinion is against drone strikes, not just here in Pakistan, but in the world," Chaudhry said.
Adding to the pressure, Human Rights Watch also released a report on U.S. drone attacks Tuesday -- this one focusing on Yemen.
"To the extent these reports claim that the U.S. has acted contrary to international law we would strongly disagree," he said at a press briefing Tuesday.
But Human Rights Watch said the evidence it had gathered "strongly suggests" that the strikes in Yemen it documented "did not adhere" to the policies set out by Obama.
"At least four of the strikes were carried out by drones, a fifth strike by either drones or warplanes, and a sixth one by cruise missiles releasing cluster munitions, indiscriminate weapons that pose unacceptable dangers to civilians," it said.
"The ultimate tragedy is that the drone aircraft the USA deploys over Pakistan now instill the same kind of fear in the people of the Tribal Areas that was once associated only with al Qaeda and the Taliban," said the Amnesty report.
"U.S. policy and practice on targeted killings and drones are not only of concern in their own right: they also set a dangerous precedent that other states may seek to exploit to avoid responsibility for their own unlawful killings," the report said.
In Yemen, images of the charred, shattered remains of the cleric and policemen killed in August 2012 have circulated in the village where the attack took place, the Human Rights Watch report says.