(CNN) -- Russia approved the use of military force in Ukraine on Saturday, despite warnings of consequences from the West, and Ukraine responded by saying any invasion into its territory would be illegitimate.
1.
Many Eastern Ukrainians still speak Russian, and the 2010 presidential elections divided the country with Eastern Ukraine voting heavily in favor of pro-Russia Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
"That means 20 years of trying to work with Russia down the drain," he said.
7.
8.
9.
If Ukraine didn't, and instead joined a Moscow-led Customs Union, it would get deep discounts on natural gas, Russia said.
Yanukovych also was facing a key EU demand that he was unwilling to meet: Free former Prime Minister Yulia Tymoshenko, his bitter political opponent.
Her supporters say she needs to travel abroad for medical treatment.
The demonstrations drew parallels to Ukraine's 2004 Orange Revolution, which booted Yanukovych, then a prime minister, from office.
But the opposition bloc goes well beyond Klitschko and the UDAR.
How did Yanukovych react?
He flew to Moscow, where he and Russian President Vladimir Putin announced Russia would buy $15 billion in Ukrainian debt and slash the price Kiev pays for its gas.
The law barred people from wearing helmets and masks to rallies and from setting up tents or sound equipment without prior police permission.
But wasn't the law repealed?
The protesters want to see a change in the government's overall power structure.
In late January, the President offered a package of concessions under which Yatsenyuk, the opposition leader, would have become the prime minister and, under the President's offer, been able to dismiss the government.
Why did the opposition pass on the offer?
They said Yanukovych had hardly loosened his grip on the government, nor had he seemingly reined in authorities' approach to protesters.
The opposition, in turn, blamed the government.
Street protests that started in November over a trade pact swelled into something much bigger -- resulting in the former President fleeing to Russia for safety while still claiming to be the official leader of the country.