Last month, officers visited Rodger, 22, who they say killed six people and himself Friday night, at his apartment in Isla Vista, California.
"It was apparent he was very mentally disturbed," Santa Barbara County Sheriff Bill Brown said, referring to the contents of the autobiography.
Brown said Rodger told deputies it was a misunderstanding and that he was not going to hurt anyone or himself.
He was timid," Brown told CNN on Sunday.
After that, Rodger wrote, he kept one of his guns and some loaded magazines near him so if police came back to his apartment, he would try to shoot them and escape.
"Thankfully, all suspicion of me was dropped after I took down the videos from Youtube, and the police never came back."
The plan to kill many people apparently had come together in the past year, Brown said.
Rodger stabbed three men to death at his home.
They were students at the University of California, Santa Barbara, the Sheriff's Office said.
Minutes later, Rodger sprayed bullets at the house from across the street, Brown said.
And she was -- I could tell immediately she was gone," said Sullivan, 19.
"And there was another girl right here.
By the end of the night, two of the three young women had died -- Katherine Cooper, 22, and Veronika Weiss, 19.
Rodger then zoomed around town in a black BMW, stopping at a delicatessen where he shot and killed Christopher Martinez, another UC Santa Barbara student.
He shot at two people on the sidewalk, pulled a handgun on a woman and fired some more, Brown said.
...
"Tomorrow is the day of retribution, the day in which I will have my revenge," he says in what he calls his last video.
I don't know why you girls aren't attracted to me, but I will punish you all for it."
Inside the wrecked BMW, Brown said, police found three handguns -- all legally purchased -- and more than 400 rounds of unused ammunition.
Rodger suffered from an undisclosed mental health issue and was under the care of a variety of health care professionals, Brown said.
The official said nothing had been found in the gun trace to indicate Rodger should have been disqualified.
"Being denied entry on a simple amusement park ride due to my height may seem like only a small injustice, but it was big for me at time," Rodger wrote.
"My orchestration of the Day of Retribution is my attempt to do everything, in my power, to destroy everything I cannot have," Rodger wrote.
All of those popular people who live hedonistic lives of pleasure, I will destroy, because they never accepted me as one of them.