A baby with the virus that causes AIDS was given high doses of three antiretroviral  drugs within 30 hours of her birth.
The Mississippi girl is the first child to be "functionally cured" of HIV, researchers announced Sunday.
"We didn't have the opportunity to treat the mom during the pregnancy as we would like to be able do to prevent transmission to the baby," said Dr. Hannah Gay, a pediatric HIV specialist at the University of Mississippi Medical Center.
"This is the very first case in which we've conclusively been able to document that the baby was infected and then after a period of treatment has been able to go off treatment without viral rebound," Luzuriaga told CNN.
Within a couple of days, Gay confirmed the child was HIV positive.
HIV-positive mothers given appropriate treatment pass the virus on in less than 2% of cases, Luzuriaga said.
Investigators said the Mississippi case may change that practice because it highlights the potential for cure with early standard antiretroviral therapy, or ART.
The early treatment likely led to the infant's cure, she said.
"Prompt antiviral therapy in newborns that begins within days of exposure may help infants clear the virus and achieve long-term remission without lifelong treatment by preventing such viral hideouts from forming in the first place," Persaud said.
Researchers say the only other documented case of an HIV cure is that of Timothy Brown, known as the "Berlin patient."
"I've been tested everywhere possible," said Brown, who now lives in San Francisco.
And the procedure, which is extremely dangerous, won't work in most patients because the bone marrow he received had a special genetic mutation that made the stem cells in it naturally resistant to the virus.
In fact, many AIDS experts said they believe Brown has experienced what's called a "sterilizing" cure, meaning the virus has been eliminated from the body entirely.
"On the ultra-sensitive testing, we are occasionally getting signals so we cannot say with certainty that this child is absolutely clear of HIV, but we will continue to follow up with the baby," Luzuriaga said.