And now, as House Republicans weigh a resolution to sue President Obama for not quickly enough implementing a law the same Republicans voted more than 50 times to repeal or stall, all hell has broken loose.
Their complaint?
That's right, that same employer mandate Republicans have berated Obama for, the one in the health care reform law they've voted 54 (failed) times to try to repeal or delay or stall -- the law, incidentally, that's working -- House Republicans are now using taxpayer money to sue President Obama for not implementing it quickly enough.
Republicans bash President Obama for issuing executive orders.
But why should facts like the Constitution or how every president in history has used executive orders, and in most cases more than President Obama, stand in the way of a good partisan line of attack, let alone a political stunt?
It's also a whole new level of crazy neglect of basic facts.
Witness Texas Republican Sen. John Cornyn, who last week called President Obama "tone deaf" for not visiting the border during his trip to Texas.
Then, when pressing Congress to pass immigration reform, President Obama went to the border and ... Republicans criticized him for doing so.
In case you're not good at math, that's Republicans criticizing President Obama for doing something and then -- just three years later -- criticizing him for not doing the same thing.
Republicans damn President Obama he does it and damned if he doesn't.
But while blaming and condemning President Obama has been Republicans' sole strategy since the moment he was elected, they've taken that crazy irresponsibility to the next level -- including suing the President of the United States of America for doing his job and carefully implementing laws, even the ones Republicans hate.
They're too busy spending our money on their partisan revenge stunts and inventing new outlandish attacks against Obama to distract the American people from the giant mess the Republican Party has caused -- and not only are they not doing anything to fix it, they have no solutions.