Lausanne, Switzerland (CNN)A roller-coaster series of talks wrapped up Thursday in Lausanne as a group of world powers known as the P5+1 reached a framework agreement with Iran over the country's nuclear program.
In fact, the negotiations this week provided a modern demonstration of diplomacy at its best, but also at its most hectic.
Over the course of the eight-day round of talks, negotiators, their delegations, their security details and reporters were confined primarily to the immediate area around the five-star Beau-Rivage Palace Hotel, which played host to the negotiations.
For the negotiators, the past week was marked by a marathon run of meetings, sometimes lasting throughout the night.
That sentiment was echoed by Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif even as the talks were still going on.
Over the past 18 months since talks began, Zarif said, negotiators have "developed personal respect" for one another, even though serious mistrust still exists between Iran and the Western powers.
The officials sometimes bemoaned the media circus, but they also used the attention to bolster their demands during negotiations, making statements to reporters that they hoped strengthened their footing in talks with their foreign counterparts.
Meanwhile, the traveling press corps covering the foreign ministers were given coveted red badges, allowing them access to the hotel, where the talks took place.
Many journalists found refuge in the more comfortable downstairs bar, a shorter walk from the cameras and satellite trucks used around the clock by television reporters on a rolling deadline.
"We'd get close, we kept on changing the plane schedule," a senior administration official told reporters.
There were "many moments (throughout the negotiations) when we thought we'd call it a day, call it a night, decide we'd gone as far as we could go," said the official, who briefed reporters on Kerry's plane.
"It was a very, very intense," said the official.
The announcement that an agreement had been reached sparked some chaos.
There are buses waiting to take you to the auditorium of a nearby university where it will take place.
By midday Friday, the delegations had left Lausanne, along with most of the media, returning the scenic Swiss city to its more tranquil pace.