Video from the patrol car of North Charleston's Michael Slager shows an initial traffic stop and early interactions between the officer and Scott.
Scott exits his vehicle, briefly, and Slager tells him to stay in the car.
Scott family attorney Chris Stewart told CNN the man with Scott was a co-worker and friend.
When asked what might have motivated Scott to run, Justin Bamberg, another attorney for the family, speculated that Scott might have been concerned about child support issues.
Many questions remain about what happened on Saturday when Officer Slager pulled Scott over for what police have said was a broken taillight.
In the police report that CNN obtained, a responding officer said that Slager said that at one point he started to chase Scott down a street.
He had control of Scott," Santana said.
Then, Santana said, he heard the sound of a Taser.
or 'What did I do?'
" she said.
The video shows Slager shooting eight times at Scott as Scott runs away.
Later in the video, when the officer approaches Scott's body, he drops a dark object next to the man.
It's unknown whether Scott took the officer's Taser or whether the officer picked the object up and moved it closer to the body.
Scott's shooting stirred memories of the Michael Brown case in Ferguson, Missouri, where an unarmed black teenager was killed by a white police officer.
"He has his family, and Mr. Scott also has his family," he told Holt.
"I have watched the video, and I was sickened by what I saw," North Charleston police Chief Eddie Driggers told reporters Wednesday.
Summey said that the city has ordered an additional 150 body cameras "so every officer on the street" in the city will have one.
2010 census data show that North Charleston is 47% black and 42% white.
"We can't get into the brain of another individual, so we can't state that," Scott family attorney Stewart said.
"There was not a struggle for the Taser," Anthony Scott said.
To  Anthony Scott, the videotape shows his brother was "running for his life" away from the officer.
"He cared about his family and ... no matter what happens, it will not replace my son."