Now, a 13-year-old girl once known for smiling, giggling and dropping off her sister every day at kindergarten lies motionless in a California hospital bed, hooked up to machines that doctors say are the only thing keeping her heart beating.
Doctors and a judge have declared her brain dead and said there's no chance Jahi will come back to life.
ET).
Children's Hospital Oakland spokesman Sam Singer said the hospital would comply with the order.
Attorneys for the family are filing a new complaint in federal court requesting a temporary restraining order and an injunction to prevent the hospital from disconnecting Jahi from life support, he said.
Family members say the 8th grader was alert and talking after doctors removed her tonsils, adenoids and extra sinus tissue in a surgery earlier this month.
Before the surgery, Jahi said she was worried that she would never wake up, according to her uncle.
According to family members, Jahi went into cardiac arrest.
But Jahi's family members maintain that they're hoping for a miracle and want to transfer the girl from Children's Hospital Oakland to another facility.
When asked about the girl's possible movement, the hospital spokesman, citing privacy laws, said he would not comment directly on any claims the family makes.
The attorney representing Jahi's family did not respond to requests from CNN for comment on the matter.
The case is "giving the impression that dead people can come back to life," Arthur Caplan, director of the Division of Medical Ethics at NYU Langone Medical Center, told CNN last week
His report also says McMath showed no sign of breathing on her own when a ventilator was removed: "Patient failed apnea test."
"We have our strong religious convictions and set of beliefs and we believe that, in this country, a parent has the right to make decisions concerning the existence of their child: not a doctor who looks only at lines on a paper, or reads the cold black and white words on a law that says 'brain dead' and definitely not a doctor who runs the facility that caused the brain death in the first place."