Our destination for the day is the DMZ -- or the "heavily fortified" Demilitarized Zone between North and South Korea.
As the tour bus makes its way northward along the "Freedom Highway," the guides brief us on the infiltration tunnels dug by the North Korean army with the intention to covertly invade Seoul and take over South Korea.
The third tunnel, 75 meters deep and the closest to Seoul, is the one we are scheduled to visit.
Odu Observatory, where we are left in the hands of our new guide, Sky.
Among other food-for-thought tidbits, she points out that there are many more South Korean spies sent to the North than North Korean spies sent to the South (see also the movie "Silmido"), which coincidentally puts the whole infiltration-tunnel propaganda into perspective.
After a careful passport check, we are instructed to "don't read, just sign" a Visitor's Declaration (later returned to us) stating that "Although incidents are not anticipated, the United Nations Command, the United States of America, and the Republic of Korea cannot guarantee the safety of visitors and may not be held accountable in the event of a hostile enemy act."
Both South and North Korea offer tours of the DMZ, while the tourists who take in the sight from the North are predominantly Chinese.
We are led in an orderly single file into one of the small blue U.N. conference rooms that straddles the Military Demarcation Line (MDL), where heated scuffles have been known to break out between delegates of North and South.
The southern ROK (Republic of Korea) soldiers in particular are known to be exceptionally fit, running several kilometers each day, while many are certified taekwondo masters.
As we wait in the lot to transfer back onto our original tour bus, I dare to ask our guide a risque question: What exactly is inside the ROK soldiers' pants?
The bus makes a final outdoor stop at the highest military checkpoint within the JSA, giving us a panoramic view of the naturally disguised minefields that stretch across to the North Korean mountains.
As people begin hopping back onto the bus to leave Panmunjom, two ROK soldiers graciously agree to pose with a few tourists who can't get enough of this military field trip.
As we wave good-bye, just before one soldier sees the group off with a dutifully stiff salute, I catch a glimpse of his comrade offering us a rare smile.