They simply did not happen," Cain insisted of the accusations of inappropriate sexual behavior, and at least one incident of alleged sexual groping, when he was head of the National Restaurant Association from 1996 to 1999.
At a news conference he held to respond to the latest accusation, made Monday by Sharon Bialek, a Chicago woman who once worked at the restaurant group, Cain described her as a "troubled" woman put up to making false allegations by forces trying to derail his presidential bid.
Ain't going to happen," Cain said.
The restaurant association said at the time that it investigated the accusations and Cain denied them, Bennett noted.
And, Kraushaar told CNN, she received a $46,000 sexual harassment settlement, rather than a severance agreement.
Bennett told CNN that Gloria Allred and Bialek have agreed to participate.
Meanwhile, a longtime friend of one of Cain's unidentified accusers said Tuesday that Cain mentioned a possible job promotion at the same time he made the accuser uncomfortable with sexual innuendo and overtures.
Bialek said earlier Tuesday that a reason she came forward with her account of Cain's alleged misbehavior 14 years after the fact was encouragement from her 13-year-old son.
Bialek's story was the first public, detailed account of alleged misbehavior by Cain.
Bialek said Cain told her, "You want a job, right?"
She didn't file a complaint at the time because she no longer worked for the association, said Bialek, who also denied wanting any money for going public, despite a bankruptcy stemming from costs related to her late mother's medical bills.
In a written statement, campaign spokesman J.D.
Bialek's bombshell came as Cain was in his second week of battling the sexual harassment allegations that have overwhelmed his front-running campaign for the Republican presidential nomination.
However, Republican Sen. Lisa Murkowski of Alaska said Tuesday that Cain should quit the race if the allegations against him are true.
"This isn't for fun.
In denying all the allegations, Cain said Tuesday that he still has the support of his wife of more than 40 years.
He has complained that the sexual harassment allegations amount to a baseless media onslaught against his campaign.
"You cannot let this dominate the campaign," Vander Plaats said, a sentiment echoed by other analysts.
She told CNN Tuesday that Cain and the women should testify under oath.
Watch Piers Morgan Live weeknights 9 p.m.