Herbert Hale lives on a check of a little less than $17 a week and whatever he can pick up from odd jobs.
"All it is is logs, glue -- dirt and water put together -- then cement and the chicken string," Hale says of his home.
"I have to be careful," Hale says matter-of-factly as he pulls a few fistfuls.
Rattlesnakes.
He says he gets a check for just shy of $17 every week from a tribal welfare fund, and tries to find odd jobs to pay for his food and to help out a diabetic sister.
So Hale heads out most days toward Eagle Butte -- 17 miles up one road and then 21 miles more up the next.
"It is bad," he says of the area's economic plight, walking a visitor through the gravel streets where many residents, idle because of the lack of jobs, are sitting out front or shout out a greeting from inside their small homes.
1 county statistically with child poverty," he said.
"It is so difficult," he says of the challenge facing younger reservation residents.
A medical center is under construction, thanks to funding from the Obama administration's stimulus plan, and Bryce In The Woods says about 65 construction-related jobs so far have gone to tribal members.
There would be a lot more need to be fulfilled by the U.S. government for our tribe before I can say yes."
"I can sympathize, empathize, with the demands, with the pressures that are on his shoulders, on his plate and put in front of him," Brings Plenty said during a break from a Tribal Council meeting.
To be clear, Chairman Brings Plenty and Bryce In the Woods say not all of the tribe's problems rest with the federal government.
"When it comes down to a vote, a lot of the urban representatives, I don't think they really know the plight on the reservation," Bryce In the Woods said.
Herbert Hale shrugs when asked if Washington has a responsibility to help his struggling community.
The temperature neared 100 degrees on the day of our visit, yet Hale's wood stove was warm to the touch.
"Sometimes it's a long walk," he says.
Often no cars ... A few times I felt like falling asleep on the road.
"If they did, I wasn't home."
A few dollars a day wouldn't hurt.
One day at a time."