Phnom Penh, Cambodia (CNN) -- Late one night, after dark, we met up with Don Brewster -- head of Agape International Missions, an NGO fighting child prostitution -- to go behind the scenes at Cambodia's KTVs: karaoke clubs that are fronts for brothels.
We walk into a KTV; Scott and Don lead the way into the karaoke rooms.
We are brought into a low ceilinged, dank room with some disgusting couches and a video screen on one wall.
Don says if we take the elevator up from the basement, we can skip the bar and go straight to the "massage" floor.
I have my iPhone in hand and itching to take a picture when suddenly things go horribly sideways: A white-clad girl in the bowl suddenly jumps up and starts screaming "She take a picture!!"
I try and stand my ground and keep saying, "I didn't take a picture."
We hustle back onto the elevator.
The large and comfortable room had a giant screen on one wall and couches lining the other three walls.
An older woman walked in five girls dressed in fairly classy though sexy business suits, for us to take our pick of whom we would like to stay with us.
Don picks one, and so does Scott and the two join us; the karaoke starts in earnest.
The young girl sitting next to me, the one Scott chose, is extremely pretty.
Her family doesn't know what kind of work she is doing, she said.
She chooses to sing a song from the Karaoke catalog, a popular dance hit in Khmer, which has a video of a singer performing in front of what looks to be an American style high school dance, again like a prom.
I see that Don has been very busy with the girl he invited to stay, showing her a video on his iPhone in which a girl from his center talks about how she was able to leave a KTV and now has a job that she is excited about and is much happier.
Thankfully, the hostesses did not seem to mind or care that we were doing this; the whole room was on security cameras poised in the corners but no one came in and stopped us.
"I know it is hard to trust us, strangers," I told her.
I had no idea that I was going to be involved in trying to recruit girls to leave the KTV life and receive the services of Don's NGO.