(CNN) -- President Barack Obama and Republican candidate Mitt Romney traded accusations on tax policy Thursday, with both claiming at campaign stops in battleground states that the other's strategies have failed.
They have not gotten America back to work again," Romney said of Obama, citing 41 straight months of unemployment over 8%.
The president also made a campaign visit to Virginia, while Romney joined Republican governors -- including several potential running mates -- at an Aspen, Colorado, conference.
"We need you, we're looking forward to your services as president," said Gov.
Mary Fallin of Oklahoma.
Polls show that Romney and Obama are statistically even in Colorado and Virginia, while Obama holds a small lead in Florida.
Eric Fehrnstrom, a senior Romney campaign adviser, called the report "a joke" on Thursday's conference call, while Romney economic adviser Kevin Hassett said it fails to include the projected revenue increase from an expanded employment base that Romney's policies would bring.
In his Florida remarks, Obama ridiculed the Romney team's criticism of the report, noting another of the co-authors was an economist in the administration of Republican President George H.W.
However, Romney has yet to say which specific tax breaks he plans to eliminate, and the Tax Policy Center report indicated the result of his plan would force the tax burden to shift toward lower- and middle-class Americans.
Romney and Republicans want to extend all the Bush tax cuts for now to prevent any increase, while Obama says the lower rates should not continue for the wealthiest 2% of Americans to bring more fairness to the system.
In anticipation of Obama's Florida trip Thursday, the Romney campaign released a new ad in the state that blames the president for a stalling economy there.
Another new Romney ad Wednesday hammered Obama over unemployment and other economic problems, saying: "Americans need a change.
The group said the ad to air in Nevada, Ohio and Pennsylvania is told from the perspective of the horse, pointing out that the Romneys spend $77,000 a year for its upkeep.
In a statement, MoveOn.org's executive director said the group was not lampooning the horse itself.
CNN's Tom Cohen, Peter Hamby, Kevin Liptak and Paul Steinhauser contributed to this report.