On Wednesday evening, one week after the badly beaten and burned boy was found in the apartment of the woman caring for him, his body was claimed at the morgue in New York.
A prosecutor told the court last week that King also was being investigated on suspicion of murder and faced additional charges.
In a statement last week, King's attorney, Bryan Konoski, said: "My client is not charged with homicide at this time and she is presumed to be innocent of allegations against her.
The boy's mother, Ashlee Dobson, who faced abuse and neglect charges in both South Carolina and New York City before ultimately losing custody of Myls in 2011, plans a memorial service for her son in Harlem on Tuesday night.
King told police that Myls' father dropped the child off for her to watch on December 17 and that she was the "child's primary and sole caretaker" until the time of his death, the complaint said.
"The city of New York put the child in the care of the father, who they knew was a felon," Herbert said.
No.
At the New York family court hearing, it was mentioned that Ashlee Dobson was arrested after an emergency room nurse at a South Carolina hospital spotted lacerations on the boy and called the police, according to an April 8, 2011, police report from the Colleton County Sheriff's Office.
Dobson told police that Myls later fell down stairs and struck his head.
Last week, Dobson told reporters that she was turning her life around in hopes of regaining custody of her son.
King, the baby-sitter, told police that on December 29 she removed a hot rack from an oven with a glove and allegedly placed it against the boy's right leg, leaving linear burn marks, the complaint said.
On January 7, during subfreezing temperatures, King told police she allegedly locked the child, wearing only a T-shirt and shorts, outside on a balcony from 20 minutes to an hour, the complaint said.
King told authorities that the boy was "being very difficult eating and that the last full meal he ate was on December 26, 2013; after that he would only pick at his food," the complaint said.
After arriving at King's home on December 17, the complaint said, Myls Dobson lost 20 to 25 pounds.
"And god forbid when they happen, it is our job to learn from them and try to every time do better so we can reach more children."