Lisbon, Portugal (CNN) -- Calling it a significant step forward for the alliance and European security, President Obama announced Friday that NATO will develop a missile defense system to safeguard most of Europe and the United States.
NATO Secretary-General Anders Fogh Rasmussen announced Friday that heads of state had agreed to a new mission statement, calling it the alliance's "road map for the next 10 years."
"But it also modernizes the way NATO does defense in the 21st century."
Under the new plan, NATO will bolster its role in counterinsurgency efforts, as well as the stabilization and reconstruction of key countries, according to Rasmussen.
In an exclusive interview with CNN's Chris Lawrence, Georgian President Mikhail Saakashvili said he hoped that Russia's deepening partnership with NATO would cause Moscow to take a "more civilized approach" in dealing with its neighbors.
Obama said Friday that NATO leaders had called passage of the treaty -- which, among other things, would restart mutual nuclear inspections and limit the arsenal in the two countries -- critical to European and global security.
The search for a new mandate for the entire alliance comes at a time that 16 of the 28 NATO members have announced cuts in defense spending.
"In an alliance that finds achieving consensus is central, having one partner clearly overshadow all others highlights the real limits of the transatlantic alliance," the report said.
The new strategic concept will cite current security challenges facing NATO members in the 21st century, such as terrorism, cyber warfare and piracy.
"Those are capabilities that deal with ongoing operations in Afghanistan, but also capabilities to deal with 21st century threats, including beefing up our cyberdefenses and embracing the deployment of missile defenses to protect European territory and populations against the growing threat of ballistic missiles."
The future of some 80,000 U.S. military forces in Europe will also be discussed.
European leaders are looking for Obama to keep U.S. troops at their current levels, although the Obama administration has urged Europe to share more of the burden of its own defense.