(CNN) -- Five years ago, telling a friend that you interact regularly with a verbose orange traffic cone might earn you a pitying hug and a quick trip to the sanatorium.
Novelty nonhuman accounts have been a Twitter staple since Sockington, a Boston-area housecat, joined the service in March 2007 on his way to 1.4 million followers.
Another Olympics-related feed celebrates the star-spangled towel that American gymnast Danell Leyva drapes over himself between events.
When the woman behind pet-centric account @CatFoodBreath began her novelty Twitter account in August 2010, she wasn't planning on sticking around.
"At first, I didn't know this account was about a cat, [but] as I explored the Twitterverse, I soon realized I had a character that people related to," she said.
"I love everything about the fog," said the man who created @KarlTheFog in August 2010.
"I think the way it sneaks over the hills is beautiful, mysterious and even a little romantic.
Karl already has more than 5,000 followers.
My favorite tweets are when people take pictures of Karl and post them on Twitter or Instagram," the man said.
"I find that hilarious -- people stopping what they are doing in the real world to take a picture of an orange cone.
"Kasey made a Twitter apology and I added about 1,200 followers in the next hour," he said.
Nobody knows who I am," said the man behind the foul-tempered @PigeonJon bird character, referring to the anonymous Britain-based artist.
he wrote in an e-mail to CNN.
The account has more than 200,000 followers.
Many novelty Twitterers with large followings are baffled by their popularity, which has led them to think about the relationship between the Internet and the real world.
Added the man behind KarlTheFog, "I think people in the Bay Area like Karl because the fog was already a character in their lives.
In a world that's becoming increasingly personalized, you can surround yourself with a cast of friends on the Internet that match your exact interests and sense of humor."
"The Cone gets to say and do the things I think we all wish we could do," its creator said.
But let's be honest: @WeirdHorse may have one little agenda.
What's your favorite nonhuman Twitter account?