CARL AZUZ, CNN STUDENT NEWS ANCHOR: Of course, we will have more on that for you in today's show, but we are getting off the ground in northern Africa.
CNN Student News starts right now!
He says they're taking some sort of pills and being manipulated by the al Qaeda terrorist group.
But during a speech earlier this week, President Obama said what's going on in that part of the world has nothing to do with outside influences.
AZUZ: Looking around that region, starting next door to Libya in Algeria.
One of the lawmakers said, "I resigned because there's been no respect by the government for human rights."
AZUZ: The space shuttle Discovery has made more trips into space than any other craft.
All together, the shuttle's spent almost a full year in orbit around the Earth.
After Discovery's current mission, there are just two launches left for the space shuttle program.
You can get the latest details on this situation at CNN.com.
AZUZ: Our latest Teachers' Lounge blog asks for your opinions about a controversial budget decision in Detroit.
Willie O'Ree was the first African-American to play in what sports league?
AZUZ: Willie O'Ree paved the way for other African-Americans to hit the NHL ice.
Sell me on hockey!
EVANDER KANE, THRASHERS LEFT WINGER: Hockey is the fastest, most physical sport there is.
ODUYA: Maybe in Atlanta, you tell people that you're a hockey player and they don't believe you.
CAREY: Who here knew that they were going to be a professional hockey player?
And I said, "No, I'm going to be a hockey player," and I stuck with it.
CAREY: Did anybody try to steer you to something different, because you don't look out on the ice that often and see people of color?
I'd go play a little bit of basketball, but after an hour I'd get bored of it, so I'd say, "I have to go play hockey now."
CAREY: We always hear about hockey as, it's an expensive sport for kids who want to play.
But there's a lot of community initiatives right now in the NHL helping urban kids.
AZUZ: Finally today, with the space shuttle program winding down, we're looking back at the 132 missions that have come before.
I'm Carl Azuz.