Bowe Bergdahl on May 31 in exchange for five Taliban figures detained at Guantanamo Bay.
On the Democratic side, Senate allies of President Barack Obama said the deal mediated by the government of Qatar came together too quickly to consult with Congress over an exchange that critics from both parties have labeled too costly.
Members of both parties complain the Obama administration should have let Congress know ahead of time that the exchange was taking place.
"This was a secret military mission in which disclosure of the mission could put into jeopardy not just the life of Sergeant Bergdahl but also the lives of the American servicemen who were involved in the mission," White House spokesman Josh Earnest said Tuesday.
"They are merely required to notify us in a classified manner that a transfer will take place, and of the conditions set to prevent a terrorist from re-entering the fight."
Democratic Sen. Joe Manchin, a moderate from West Virginia known for criticizing the administration at times, said his main concern was the release of five Taliban figures who could return to the battlefield against U.S forces and interests.
A memorandum of understanding between the United States and Qatar on the deal that freed Bergdahl offered "no guarantee" that the five Taliban commanders exchanged for the captured Army sergeant would be tracked, a Democratic member of the House Intelligence Committee told CNN.
He wouldn't say who else will be watching, but he said the United States is confident the conditions of their release will be honored.
Administration officials gave a classified briefing to the Senate Armed Services Committee on Tuesday after a similar session on Monday with House members.
After the briefing to House members, some said they were told as many as 80 to 90 administration officials knew of the pending exchange ahead of time, while Congress did not.
"I think the President had the constitutional authority ... to make this decision without consulting with Congress," Schiff said.
More Americans disapprove than approve of Bergdahl's release in exchange for five Taliban detainees, according to two new national polls.
The Army has no definitive finding that Bergdahl deserted because that would require knowing his intent -- something Army officials couldn't learn without talking to the soldier, a U.S. military official told CNN.
CNN reported Friday that Bergdahl has said he was kept in a small box after trying to escape, according to a senior U.S. official, who spoke on the condition of not being identified.
The official also told CNN that Bergdahl suffers from psychological trauma caused by physical abuse.