Washington (CNN) -- In the most extensive reshaping of the Obama administration's national security team to date, the president will name Central Intelligence Agency Director Leon Panetta as his nominee to succeed Robert Gates as defense secretary, top U.S. officials said Wednesday.
Gates will resign effective June 30, assuming Panetta gets confirmed by Congress in time and is ready to start on July 1, according to an administration official and a congressional aide familiar with phone calls Gates was making to legislators and senior staff members.
Petraeus will remain in command in Afghanistan until Allen is ready to take over at the beginning of September, officials said, which could require an interim CIA director if Panetta moves to the defense secretary's office as planned on July 1.
Gates was telling legislators and staff members that he recommended Panetta for his job six months ago, and joked that Panetta stopped speaking to him for days for doing so, the officials said.
It took a meeting with Obama to convince Panetta to accept the job, a source familiar with the discussions told CNN.
He served as chief of staff to President Bill Clinton between 1994 and 1997, and was previously the director of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB).
He "learned a lot of lessons" about defense budgeting during his stint as the head of the OMB, and knows how to deal with a Republican Congress, as he did during the Clinton administration, Berteau said.
Panetta has earned the trust and confidence of Obama as leader of the CIA, and has name recognition, which is important, Berteau said, adding: "It's a name Americans recognize.
Forces Afghanistan on July 4, 2010, after serving for more than 20 months as commander of United States Central Command.
Crocker has served previously as U.S. ambassador to Iraq and to Pakistan, while Allen became deputy commander of U.S. Central Command in July 2008.
When asked if he would continue under another administration, Gates said in 2008, "I learned a long time ago never to say never, so my answer is: The circumstances under which I would do that are inconceivable to me."
In December 2008, then-President-elect Obama expressed a desire for continuity at the Pentagon, given the ongoing conflicts abroad in Iraq and Afghanistan.
Mueller will leave "hard shoes to fill," Holder said.
If that timeline slips, however, the Mueller term would end September 4, one week before the 10th anniversary of the 9/11 terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon.