With extreme eating habits like these, it may be some surprise to learn that within the Olympic Village there lurks a culinary trap that can potentially tip athletes over the fine line between success and failure at London 2012.
With a McDonald's at one end and machines dispensing other sponsors' soft drinks and confectionery, the giant eating area provides mountains of fodder from around the world -- a full gamut of gluttony from one extreme of the health spectrum to the other.
"For the younger athletes it's an exciting new experience," says sports scientist Jess Corones, who works with the Australian Olympic swim team.
They think, 'Oh this is so cool,' and they just run to it -- but you have to remind them that it'll still be there when they've finished competing and that until they've finished competing they've got to stay on their normal routine."
"I've tried to get people to try it, but they won't.
However, it's rare for athletes to eat quite that much, says Corones, who first worked with Australia's track and field team at the 2004 Athens Games.
Phelps actually admitted this year that the report of his gargantuan appetite was a myth, saying such intake would be impossible.
You wouldn't get many athletes doing that these days."
Good nutrition from a young age can be vital if you want to be an elite athlete.
"You can get vitamin D in food sources (such as eggs, dairy and fish) but it's not as effective as sunshine production," Stevenson said.
But, with drug-testing standards improving year by year and the list of banned substances also increasing, there is a strong onus for athletes to be acutely aware of everything they put in their mouth.
"Most athletes are using quite a few supplements.
"You might trust your coach 100% but if he gives you a bottle of tablets and tells you it's iron, it's still your responsibility to get that checked.
"It varies depending on where we are in the year," says Corones, who works for the New South Wales Institute of Sport in Sydney.
A big part of Corones' job is making sure athletes learn the right food habits -- and this generally means breaking eating patterns formed at a young age.
It's about trying to break those cycles and get them eating as well as they can."