(CNN)  -- Fernando Torres' highly-anticipated switch to English champions Chelsea was completed just before Monday transfer window closed in a deal that his former team Liverpool said had broken the British record.
The 26-year-old scored 65 goals in 102 Premier League appearances for Liverpool after joining from Atletico Madrid in 2007 in a £20 million deal, netting 81 in 142 games in all competitions.
Torres' move followed the news that Liverpool had agreed a club-record fee for Newcastle's England striker Andy Carroll, who handed in a transfer request in the afternoon after the 18-time English champions made an improved bid.
Carroll joined Uruguay World Cup striker Luis Suarez at Liverpool, with the 24-year-old completing his $36 million transfer from Dutch club Ajax earlier on Monday to become Kenny Dalglish's first major signing in his second stint as manager.
Another high-profile striker on the move Monday was Tottenham's Robbie Keane, who has agreed a loan switch to London rivals West Ham until the end of this season.
United States international midfielder Michael Bradley has joined English club Aston Villa from German side Borussia Monchengladbach on loan until the end of this season.
Turkey international striker Tuncay Sanli has moved from English Premier League side Stoke to Wolfsburg in a $7 million deal, the German club announced on their official website.
Stoke also allowed former Chelsea and Barcelona striker Eidur Gudjohnsen to join English rivals Fulham on loan, with the Iceland international having failed to win a regular place since his pre-season move from Monaco.
Italian champions Inter Milan have signed Japan leftback Yuto Nagamoto on loan from Cesena on loan for the rest of this season, with 20-year-old Italy international defender Davide Santon moving in the opposite direction.
English club Birmingham City signed Nigeria international Obafemi Martins in a six-month loan deal from Russian side Rubin Kazan, after the former Newcastle striker was granted a work permit.
Dutch club Feyenoord have signed Denmark international striker Soren Larsen from French side Toulouse on loan for the rest of this season, along with Arsenal's new 18-year-old Japanese forward Ryo Miyaichi and Borussia Monchengladbach midfielder Marcel Meeuwis.