(CNN)Tori Sisson and Shanté Wolfe of Tuskegee, Alabama, camped outside the Montgomery County Courthouse overnight, hoping that when the sun rose Monday, they'd be the first same-sex couple to be legally married in the county.
They previously considered going to a state that allowed same-sex marriage, but Wolfe balked at the idea.
Sisson wept, while Wolfe did not.
"One of us has to hold it together," Wolfe quipped.
Though the U.S. Supreme Court and the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Alabama cleared the way for same-sex marriages to begin Monday in Alabama, the famously conservative chief justice of the state Supreme Court on Sunday mounted a last-ditch effort to stop the weddings, instructing probate judges not to issue marriage licenses to same-sex couples.
"Effective immediately, no Probate Judge of the State of Alabama nor any agent or employee of any Alabama Probate Judge shall issue or recognize a marriage license that is inconsistent" with the state code or constitution, Moore wrote in the order.
The Human Rights Campaign has already denounced the order as a "clear violation of all codes of legal ethics," and several counties -- including Jefferson, Montgomery and Madison -- have told CNN they intend to issue same-sex marriage licenses Monday.
But in Tuscaloosa County, where five same-sex couple were awaiting licenses when the court opened Monday, chief probate clerk Lisa Whitehead said the court would follow Moore's guidance.
Wallace to stop the federally ordered desegregation of schools by blocking black students from entering the University of Alabama's Foster Auditorium.
...
Robert Bentley said he would not punish probate judges who issue the licenses.
Alabama Attorney General Luther Strange asked the U.S. Supreme Court to block the marriages until the high court rules on a case on its docket that will decide the fate of same-sex marriages in four states.
The U.S. Supreme Court said Monday it would not intervene for now, making Alabama the 37th state (plus Washington, D.C.) to permit same-sex marriages.
Strange further advised probate judges to consult with their attorneys "about how to respond to the ruling."