Having graduated from the Kiev Foreign Languages Institute, he worked as a journalist, did his military service as a prison warden in Odessa, then became a cameraman, writer of screenplays and author.
I was checking the Internet every hour to see if Russia had started war with Ukraine.
Ukrainian volunteers started to flow towards Crimea and the Eastern border with Russia, while roads filled up with armored personnel carriers and other military vehicles.
Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov repeats each day that Russia doesn't plan to occupy eastern and southern Ukraine.
On March 5, Putin announced to the world that "military maneuvers" were successfully completed and by March 7 all Russian soldiers, together with their equipment, would be back in their usual location, leaving Crimea alone.
The rest of the world agrees that Crimea is Ukrainian territory occupied by Russia.
Ukrainian International Airlines stopped all its flights to the Crimean capital Simferopol and Crimean residents are now anxiously waiting for the summer holiday season.
And after that, what?
They can only export it to Russia, but Russia has enough wine and fruit of its own.
If the self-proclaimed Crimean government asked me the question: "How can Crimea keep on going?"
Strictly speaking, Crimea has remained Soviet.
There are times, when I think that Russia occupied this peninsula so that Ukrainian nationalists couldn't demolish these Soviet-era landmarks, just as they did in Kiev and central and western Ukraine.
My main concern is that Russia will start destabilizing southeast Ukraine before the presidential elections on May 25.
The scenario of the Russian expansion could look very simple: May 9 will be commemorated as Victory Day -- something of an annual cult holiday for many in Russia.
I am afraid that once Russian ''peace-keepers'' enter Ukrainian territory they will not stop until they get to Kiev.
That is because the Kremlin's main goal remains to put a pro-Russian government in Ukraine, the kind that will sign an agreement of friendship and cooperation and will recognize to Crimea as a Russian territory.