Many sleeping pills stop working after a few hours, and most should not be combined with other medications.
Many stop working after a few hours, for instance, and most should never be mixed with other meds.
A: More than a third of Americans experience occasional insomnia, which is defined as a few nights of restlessness, poor sleep, or trouble falling asleep.
For starters, your doc may have you visit a sleep specialist to rule out sleep apnea, a common breathing disorder that wakes sufferers several times a night, sometimes without them even knowing it.
Health.com: Health risks of snoring and sleep apnea
A: Many sleep experts aren't fans of OTC sleep aids because the meds don't usually help people with significant insomnia.
A: If you're taking a short-acting drug, such as Sonata, Rozerem, or Ambien -- and it's still early in the evening -- you can take another pill.
Longer-acting drugs like the time-released Ambien CR or Lunesta -- for people who have trouble falling and staying asleep -- shouldn't be taken more than once a night.
Here's why: "Alcohol becomes a stimulant about three to four hours after you drink it, so you're actually working against your sleep medication," Arand says.
Why?
"Then eat dessert without any alcohol and wait as long as possible before taking your sleeping pill."
A: Not usually, Arand says, "but some sleep meds can suppress dream recall."
Tolerance is a common problem with all sleeping pills: After taking them for a while, you need more than the usual dose to help you sleep, which may lead you to think you're addicted.
Q: I've been taking sleeping pills for several months.
Then, stop taking the drug altogether.
A: You might have some trouble, Krieger says, though it's less likely with the newer pills -- these include Rozerem, Sonata, and Lunesta.
Rebound insomnia is one of the reasons some experts recommend CBT over sleep medications.
That said, if you want to try melatonin, take 0.2 to 1 mg about four hours before bedtime: "It's safe to take every day," Krieger says.
Before using any supplement, check with your doctor; combining them with other medications -- sleeping pills or otherwise -- can be risky.