"Sport has the power to change the world," Nelson Mandela once said -- and the South African prisoner-turned-president also provided perhaps the most eloquent supporting evidence for his claim.
The sport had long been seen as the white man's game in South Africa, and many non-whites identified the national team, the Springboks, as being synonymous with minority rule.
Despite their readmission in 1992 to international rugby, after years of apartheid-enforced sporting isolation, South Africa used home advantage so well that the debutants reached the World Cup final.
"The day's crowning moment came before the game had even begun, when Mandela went out onto the field, before a crowd of 65,000 that was 95% white, wearing the green Springbok jersey, the old symbol of oppression, beloved of his apartheid jailers," he wrote.
Nelson!'"
"The Rainbow Nation and Mandela's legacy was supposed to be about the erosion of racial categories, but that has not happened," said Desai.
What we have now is deepening racial division, with racial categories being pre-eminent again."
Mandela won the argument despite the Springboks' history of breaking the international sporting ban that the ANC had successfully forced on many South African teams during apartheid.
With Mandela now draped in the football jersey, South Africa used home soil to win the Africa Cup of Nations, the continent's premier football event, at the first time of asking.
Within Africa, many said they felt an increased sense of belonging as the football World Cup, which dates back to 1930, finally arrived in Africa -- the first time the continent had hosted a global event on the scale of the Olympics.
"Nelson Mandela will stay in our hearts forever.
"The sports history books in South Africa will show statistics and victories.
This sense of belonging is one that Mandela maintained with his foundation, the Nelson Mandela Children's Fund, which started the Sport for Good program with the aim of using sport as a way of improving the lives of children in both South Africa and Swaziland.
"I have always believed that exercise is a key not only to physical health, but to peace of mind," wrote the once-keen boxer and long-distance runner.
The efficacy of his discipline -- which also included 45 minutes of running "on the spot in my cell" and extensive anaerobic exercise four times a week -- was clear to see in the energy he brought to life as a free man -- keeping together the fragile, new South Africa, visiting world leaders and becoming one of the political icons of our time.