A trawl through court records on Thursday revealed a more complete picture of Tareq and Michaele Salahi, who have left an extensive paper trail in federal bankruptcy and state court filings.
"At this time the Salahis will not make any formal comments regarding the rumors and media speculation surrounding the White House state dinner," their publicist, Mahogany Jones, said in a statement.
We look forward to setting the record straight very soon."
One of the lawsuits against the Salahis was filed by Robb Levin of Fairfax, Virginia, who held his wedding at the Oasis Winery in August 2005.
Levin contracted with the winery to provide vendors, such as florists and catering, for the event.
But, he said, he discovered the winery was adding a "significant profit" to what the vendors were charging them.
After he signed a contract to hold his wedding there, "They were very, very, very hard to get a hold of," he said.
I don't remember a whole 8- or 12-page document," Levin said.
In the end, Levin said, he paid up to make sure the wedding went ahead, then sued the Salahis afterward to get his money back.
Court records show Tareq sued his mother, Corinne, and the case was dismissed.
Tareq Salahi is listed as company president in the filing.
Among the debts listed are more than $60,000 in credit card debt and an "unknown" amount in federal back taxes.
The filing lists two pending lawsuits against Oasis, one for more than $300,000 for "catering services"  and one judgment against the company.
In addition, a boat valued at $90,000 was repossessed in June 2008, with $56,000 still owed, according to court documents.
The business had filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy in December 2008, with Salahi's mother, Corinne, listing herself as president.
If they lied to federal agents in order to get into the White House dinner, that is a federal crime, said Fran Townsend , CNN national security contributor.
The couple also appears to have posted pictures on Facebook purportedly showing them gaining access to high profile events during inauguration week, according to The Washington Post's Reliable Sources gossip column.
Other pictures purportedly show them mingling with celebrities during inauguration weekend, including talk show host Oprah Winfrey at the Kennedy Center, according to the Post.