Russian authorities insist that is not the case.
But in November 2010, Shuster said, Navalny "blew the whistle" on what he said was a $4 billion embezzlement scheme at the state-run oil pipeline operator Transneft -- a claim vigorously denied by the head of the company and Russian president Vladimir Putin.
"The leaked documents he presented as evidence, which he posted on his blog, caused a sensation in the Russian and international press, and Navalny soon became known as Russia's top crusader against corruption," wrote TIME's Shuster.
Navalny presented "a serious political challenge as a result of his unique personality and his amazing energy," she said.
The day before his trial began in April this year, Navalny told CNN's Phil Black he knew he would be convicted and that it was likely he would be jailed.
These people steal billions.
Lipman said she also believed the verdict was politically motivated.
Russian authorities have always insisted Navalny's prosecution is not political.
When Navalny arrived in court the day after his conviction, he found the prosecutor who had argued he should be sent to prison arguing instead for his release pending appeal, so that he could continue campaigning for the Moscow mayoralty.
She said that his release was unlikely to have been as a result of protest action after the verdict was announced.
But she said any political involvement would be denied by the government.
Lipman said that if Navalny's conviction was upheld by a higher court, his name would be unable to appear on an electoral ballot.
The idea is that now he is at large up until his lawyers send in an appeal in a higher court re-examine his case.
Once in Moscow, he will decide whether to boycott the election or continue his campaign, he said, according to the news agency.
Lipman said Navalny's conviction was not likely to cost Putin any support.
"The minority of more modernized urban Russians -- people who resent the government for being lawless -- people likely to sympathise with Navalny -- I think they will be even angrier.
Rachel Denber, deputy director of Human Rights Watch's Europe and Central Asia division, said she was not surprised by the guilty verdict but was shocked by the five-year prison sentence.
Not on previous occasions and not this time."