(CNN)It was a very telling mini-scandal, the faux-fury over Michelle Obama's short visit to Saudi Arabia.
Then, finally, we heard the questions about whether she committed an etiquette no-no when she shook hands with the new Saudi monarch, King Salman.
The presence of an American first lady on Saudi territory embodies the intense unease that surrounds U.S. and Western relations with the Saudi kingdom.
The United States wants to have good relations with Saudi Arabia, not only because it has a lot of oil, but because it is one of the most powerful countries in the Middle East and the two countries share many strategic goals.
At the same time, many of Saudi Arabia's practices stand in direct violation of America's -- and the world's -- most cherished values.
In fact, the claim that her attire and performance created a firestorm in Saudi Arabia is plainly false.
Countless prominent women have appeared in public meeting Saudi royals without wearing headscarves.
But it was not committed by the first lady or by King Salman.
The story made headlines because people in the United States and in the West feel a scandal in the relationship, because much of what goes on in Saudi Arabia is an affront not just to Western principles but to human rights conventions endorsed by most of the world.
And some of the most egregious violations of those values are perpetrated against Saudi women.
Saudi women, who are intelligent, strong, competent, mature, capable of making decision for themselves as well as any Saudi man, are treated in many cases as if they were children.
Blogger Raif Badawi, who sought to promote a discussion about social and religious issues on his website, was sentenced to 1,000 lashes for "insulting Islam," and showing disobedience.
So what is the United States to do?
A condolence call was not the time for public criticism, and Michelle Obama's presence in Riyadh was a meaningful sign that the United States believes women belong in the public sphere.
The scandal was a sign of the frustration people feel with this ethical dilemma.