My team, more than 250 civilians from the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, had been sent to Ukraine three months before to monitor and report on the security situation in the country and to facilitate dialogue.
We knew we were close when we spotted from a distance the vertical tail, with the Malaysia Airlines logo still largely intact.
Our first observations were of a gruesome scene of smoldering rubble, bodies (some still strapped into their seats), personal belongings and a bewildered group of swaggering rebels, uniformed first responders and foreign journalists.
The impact of the jet smashing into the ground caused a fireball in one field that brought temperatures as high as 1,600 degrees Celsius, according to some experts -- enough to melt the aluminum wings of the 17-year-old aircraft and incinerate everything in the immediate area.
On Day One, we were only able to spend 75 minutes on the site.
What also struck us was the randomness of how pieces of the plane fell upon this bucolic region of conflict-ridden eastern Ukraine: a toilet sink here, a business class seat a few meters away and next to it the horizontal stabilizers.
By far the most horrific scene was four days after the crash, when our team monitored the sealing up of train cars filled with the remains of the plane's passengers, at the railway station in Torez (which, ironically, was where four of our colleagues were kidnapped by an armed group at the end of May).
It was during these first crucial days that our team was able to facilitate access for four small groups of experts: a team of civil aviation experts from Kiev, a three-member team from Malaysia Airlines and that country's department of civil aviation, along with Dutch and Australian experts.
At least at the end of every day, we were able to retreat to the relative comfort of our hotel in Donetsk city.
On August 1, after almost a week-long pause due to security reasons, we were able to establish a new access route that paved the way for daily visits by a critical mass of Dutch and Australian experts to the MH17 crash site.
To finally see dozens of trained sets of eyes combing over the site, starting with the chicken farm near Hrabove, brought us all a sense of accomplishment.
What powered us through this was knowing that we were providing families with crucial bits of information in those chaotic first days.