Africa has not produced a grand slam singles finalist since Kevin Curren at the 1985 Wimbledon Championships, while Wayne Ferreira reached the semis of the Australian Open for the second time in 2003 and former world No.
Burundi will soon open Africa's third high-performance tennis center, after Pretoria and Senegal's Dakar, plus host a series of top age-group tournaments and an international event.
"We would like every country in Africa to replicate the experience of Burundi," the International Tennis Federation's development projects administrator Frank Couraud told CNN.
It's not an attitude that's prevalent in Africa, where tennis ranks below sports such as football and athletics when it comes to government funding.
If you look at our budget ($4.3 million each year) it's what (soccer's ruling body) FIFA gives to maybe one or two nations.
It's a small step, but has earned him a place in the team to tour North America ahead of September's U.S. Open along with Madagascar's Zarah Razafimahatratra -- who's in her second year with the program.
We give them the right opportunity now so one day they become professional tennis players -- and then suddenly other African kids will relate to these players.
But it's a huge step from being a good junior to a successful professional, especially in a place where travel and equipment are more expensive than the U.S. or Europe.
It can cost $70-80,000 a year to fund top coaching and tournament travel, so the best option for African players -- for those who have adequate schooling -- has traditionally been to win a college scholarship in the United States.
One of the problems of being in South Africa is we're pretty far from the tennis scene.
He said the tournament has provided much-needed visibility for tennis in South Africa, where rugby, cricket, soccer and golf are dominant.
A lot of South African players are pretty sheltered when they go out there for the first time," Anderson said.
While Anderson believes Africa needs more high-profile singles players like Curren, Ferreira and Coetzer to grow the game, his former compatriot Huber is not so sure that it will change the status quo.
A lot of people were let go of their jobs and other people were hired and tennis in South Africa went through a dip there."
"When Wes Moodie and I won Wimbledon doubles titles in 2005, I actually thought it would change tennis in South Africa.
"Maybe it's more important for the government to build schools.
"We had Amanda Coetzer in the top-10 at the time, but having a good singles player didn't raise the profile.
Huber has sponsored an under-15 girls' tournament in South Africa for almost a decade, and has offered to train players for free at the tennis ranch she runs in Texas with her husband Tony, but has been disappointed with the response from South African Tennis.
"I thought it would be a huge event, wanting to give something back, but the organization just wasn't there.