You won't need a costume to take in these attractions, but if you're looking for ideas on what to wear on October 31, you might find some inspiration from these historic -- and sometimes horrific -- destinations.
The Peoples Mortuary Museum is part of a working mortuary in Marietta, Ohio, and it boasts a collection of classic hearses from past centuries, even a horse-drawn hearse from 1895.
Funeral transportation is also in the spotlight at the William Lafferty Memorial Funeral and Carriage Collection in West Union, Ohio, with vehicles dating back to 1848.
If you want to spend the night in the company of such unusual history, check in at the Sturgis House, a funeral parlor turned bed and breakfast in East Liverpool, Ohio.
It's just steps away from the embalming equipment that remains on display as an informal mortuary museum.
Delve into its many layers at the New Orleans Historic Voodoo Museum, where admission is $5 for adults.
1.
There's also a cornucopia of New Orleans hotels where the paranormal is considered normal, such as the Monteleone, where you can stay in a haunted room or ride an elevator that seems to have a mind of its own.
Chilling attractions in this historic port city include Civil War relics such as bloodied uniforms, an amputation kit and plenty of deadly weapons.
Be sure to stop by the Charleston Library Society, a downtown cultural hot spot where you're likely to find someone who's an expert on the city's darker side.
Thirty miles north of New York City, you'll find Sleepy Hollow, a village made famous by the legend that bears its name.
Various characters and scenes from the legend are said to be based on the people and places of Sleepy Hollow, such as the burial ground at the Old Dutch Church.
Edgar Allen Poe also lived near Sleepy Hollow, and readings of his works often take place at the Sleepy Hollow Cemetery.
The museum can provide a map and a list of more than 30 sites in the area.
An international witch hunt might lead you to Scotland, where the North Berwick Witch Trials happened in 1590-1592, some 20 miles from the capital of Edinburgh.
Any time of year you might find a library reading, a festival or an underground tour honoring Edinburgh's darker side.
If you're one to study the history of Halloween itself, you'll find plenty of claims that the tradition of All Hallow's Eve has Scottish roots.