Dozens of armed men seized the regional government administration buildings in Ukraine's southern Crimean region Thursday and raised the Russian flag in a challenge to the Eastern European country's new leaders.
Yanukovych issued a defiant statement to Russian news agencies condemning the interim government in Kiev and calling everything happening now in the Ukrainian parliament illegitimate, Russian state news agency RIA Novosti reported Thursday.
Pro-Russian members of the Crimean parliament dismissed the government of Crimean Premier Anatolii Mohyliov in a vote of no confidence Thursday, his spokesman Andrey Demartino told CNN.
The lawmakers also voted for a referendum on May 25 on greater autonomy for the region within Ukrainian territory, he said.
Back in Kiev, lawmakers approved opposition leader Arseniy Yatsenyuk of the Batkivshchyna, or Fatherland, party as Prime Minister.
"The key task for the Ukrainian government is European integration," he said.
The future of Ukraine is in Europe, and Ukraine will become a member of the European Union."
"We are also discussing with all our international partners -- bilateral and multilateral -- how best to help Ukraine at this critical moment in its history," she said.
U.S. officials earlier told CNN that the Russian military exercises were making U.S. military and intelligence agencies concerned that Russia may be positioning ground forces to be able to move across the border into Ukraine if Moscow issued such orders.
U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry said his Russian counterpart, Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov, offered reassurances Thursday that military exercises were previously scheduled and not related to Ukraine.
Mohyliov, the Crimean Prime Minister, told CNN earlier Thursday that the gunmen had refused to speak with him, telling him he had no authority.
A witness, who gave his name only as Maxim, said he saw the armed men run into the building and kick out police.
We only saw the building being taken over," he said.