Washington (CNN) -- Lawyers within the Obama administration disagreed with the president's decision that U.S. participation in the NATO-led Libyan military mission doesn't come under the War Powers Resolution, White House spokesman Jay Carney said Monday.
"...
House Republican sources told CNN on Monday that several options are under consideration for votes this week -- probably Thursday -- to exert some congressional control over the Libya mission.
Obama has pledged no ground forces will be sent to the mission, and the House Republican sources said the proposal would be intended to prevent any possible escalation in the mission and give legislators a chance to express their disapproval.
In addition, House members were further angered by news of strong disagreement within the Obama administration over the president's analysis of whether the Libya mission came under the War Powers Resolution.
Gates also backed the Libyan mission, saying Obama was right to limit the scope of U.S. involvement and that he believes the president has complied with the War Powers Resolution.
One of the GOP sources noted that the Republican leadership is facing the same dilemma it did earlier this month, when Kucinich was pushing a resolution that would have withdrawn all U.S. forces from the Libya mission.
Obama responded with a report to Congress last week that argued the limited role of U.S. forces in the NATO-led Libya mission failed to constitute engaging in hostilities as defined by the War Power Resolution.
If adopted by Congress, the resolution would serve as congressional authorization under the War Powers Resolution, they say.
Carney has repeatedly emphasized that Obama had kept his word to the American people that the initial U.S. leadership role in the mission would get reduced to a supporting role, and no U.S. ground troops would take part.
Even though the Senate in March unanimously passed a nonbinding resolution supporting a no-fly zone over Libya, some Republicans now express total opposition to the U.S. support for that effort.