The goals for the visit were ambitious: reassure allies the United States remains committed to a "pivot to Asia," secure new deals to expand trade, and send a message to China that the United States has its allies' backs in territorial disputes.
1.
A week later, the White House announced the United States and the Philippines would enter into a new defense pact that allows for more American troops in Southeast Asia — interpreted by China as an attempt to balance its own presence in a region where land and water are in constant dispute.
For the first time since the 1990s, when American bases were closed in the Philippines, the United States will have a substantial military footprint there.
In Seoul the President said China "has to abide by certain norms" when it comes to its quarrels with neighbors.
2.
After several rounds of negotiations, Obama had hoped to be able to announce an agreement with Japan during his stop in Tokyo.
Even then, the White House was only able to say the two sides had "identified a path forward" in the negotiations — without specifying where the two sides were coming into agreement.
3.
But as Obama has discovered, distractions at home and abroad can gum up even the best laid foreign policy platform.
During his final stop in Asia, Obama fiercely defended his foreign policy choices, arguing that his decisions to avoid military force shouldn't be viewed by Americans — or allies — as weak.
he asked in the Philippines.
4.
In South Korea, Obama presented the country's president with a framed American flag that was flown over the White House the same day of the tragic ferry accident that left — at latest count — nearly 200 dead.
5.
Nowhere was that more evident than Malaysia, a country the United States hopes will become a firm ally in Southeast Asia.
When asked about his biggest regret, Obama didn't offer political misgivings or wishes for foreign policy do-overs.
"Our strategy is more than just security alliances or trade agreements," Obama said at the forum.
"It's also about building genuine relationships between the peoples of Asia and the peoples of the United States."