Soon, he plans to stand again in Cell 14, Block 2 at the Abu Salim prison in Tripoli.
Sometimes, he said, his wife would wake him up in the middle of the night, saying, "Hussein.
As many as 1,200 prisoners were killed at Abu Salim in the summer of 1996, according to Human Rights Watch.
Since his release in 2000, Shafei had thought about Abu Salim's dead.
Shafei, now working with the opposition in Benghazi, knew he had to return there.
With the Libyan regime on the brink of collapse, Shafei hopes the truth about Abu Salim will finally be known.
Shafei's mother, Najia, clearly remembers that day in 1988 when she returned to her home in Benghazi to find her daughters wailing.
After that, she occasionally made the long trek west from Benghazi to the prison in Tripoli.
The guards would drag her son out of his cell and into a warehouse at the entrance of the jail, where mother and son met.
Shafei spent eight years that way, in a cramped cell, without his family or the education he should have finished.
"Five or seven minutes after it started, the guards on the roofs shot at the prisoners who were in the open areas," Shafei said in an interview with Human Rights Watch many years later.
"I heard an explosion, and right after, a constant shooting started from heavy weapons and Kalashnikovs from the top of the roofs," he said.
"I could not see the dead prisoners who were shot, but I could see those who were shooting," Shafei told Human Rights Watch.
The next day, Shafei was ordered to clean the blood-smeared watches taken off the wrists of the dead.
But the families, mostly from Benghazi, now the de facto rebel capital, did not abandon their longing for answers.
The government began informing some of the families that their loved ones were dead.
Among those waiting to find out more are three brothers in Atlanta whose father, opposition activist Izzat Almegaryaf, was plucked from his home 20 years ago.
Tasbeeh Herwees, a Libyan-American journalism student in California, recalled in a blog post the funerals for the Abu Salim victims held in the summer of 2009 when she visited Benghazi.
Then in February of this year, the regime arrested Fathi Terbil, a human rights lawyer who represented some of the Abu Salim families.
"The memories of that summer come rushing back as I watch the present events in Libya unfold from my home in Cypress, California," Herwees wrote.
"It was, after all, the Abu Salim families who kick-started this revolution.
Hussein Shafei told Human Rights Watch about the carnage he witnessed.
He took his wife and three children with him.
Now, as the newly freed prisoners began returning home to Benghazi, Shafei knew the time had come for him to go back to the prison.
He owes it to all those who survived Abu Salim.
But mostly, he owes it to the souls of the dead.