(CNN) -- America's longest war is expected to conclude by the end of next year, when the United States plans to withdraw all its combat troops from Afghanistan.
"How this war winds down is very important to Afghanistan, to the United States and so many other countries," said CNN's Erin Burnett, who has been in Afghanistan this week talking to U.S. officials, troops and Afghan civilians.
Burnett talked to CNN.com on Thursday about her trip and what she's been hearing from various people about the transition and their hopes for Afghanistan's future.
Erin Burnett: Panetta points out the success in bringing down key members of core al Qaeda, and he believes he has made real progress on fighting al Qaeda and terrorism in Afghanistan.
...
I got the sense that the overall agreement is something that's going to take a significant amount of time.
The deputy foreign minister I talked to said, "Look that's not really fair, we're trying to train brigades on one thing at a time."
And he said he had to trust them completely and they were like his brothers.
He really felt a sense of accomplishment and achievement, and you have to hope that his version of things ends up being the real version.
Some people we've spoken to here sort of take it for granted that there's going to be a civil war when the United States leaves.
One female member of parliament I talked to, she wasn't totally in that camp, but she was extremely afraid of it, saying: "I hope that it won't and I have to have confidence that we're going to be able to overcome it.
Many said they were glad, and they basically said we're glad because it's time we take this on ourselves.
Burnett: During the Taliban, basically there were thousands of girls going to school in Afghanistan.
There are women's rights activists who are really afraid that when the U.S. leaves, a lot of the progress will be rolled back.
They really want to stay in their country, and they say, in their own experience, that there's been such a change in what girls can do.
...
For the latest from Erin Burnett click here.