They make airliners here.
This ain't that.
As part of a convention of aviation fans called Aviation Geek Fest, we're gaining ultra-exclusive access to the factory FLOOR.
But not so fast -- before we go inside, Boeing has laid down some rules: no photos, no video, for our eyes only.
Suddenly, we're surrounded by partly assembled airliners in a room so big it takes on the feeling of an entire world.
This building is so flippin' big that -- years ago -- it created its own inside weather patterns, including vapor clouds.
Another sports New Zealand Air's cool black-and-white.
Boeing paints the tails before they're attached to the planes.
The "Wing Build" area -- where workers attach wings to the planes -- is the loudest part of the entire facility.
"Conversation-restricted area," says one sign.
Guinness calls it the most powerful commercially produced jet engine in the world.
In fact, Boeing says it's so big you could fit the body of a 737 airliner inside it.
Engines like this make it possible for wide-body planes to fly long-distance routes nonstop with only two engines instead of three or four.
Just a few hours earlier, a handful of aviation geeks were hanging out at a hotel next to Paine Field, the airport Boeing uses to test and deliver the factory's planes.
In the entire world, there are only four of these giant planes.
Boeing uses them to ferry big sections of the 787 for final assembly here in Everett.
Who are these people -- these avgeeks?
Aviation news sites like Airchive, AirlineReporter, NYCAviation and AirlineGuys all share common friends, connections and interests.
This month AirlineReporter and a few other aviation sites broke news about the hijacking of an Ethiopian Airlines 767 in Rome about 30 minutes before many "legacy" news organizations, says AirlineReporter founder and editor-in-chief David Parker Brown.
The following day southeast of Seattle, Boeing opens up yet another factory for us to tour.
"Avgeeks love getting access to places that are off limits," says Brown.
"Even though we joke that the 737 is the 'Baby Boeing,' it's still a large and complex machine," says Granucci.
— Workers attach wings to the fuselages.
The procedure includes putting people inside the planes to listen for leaks.
Driving off the property, we spot a train loaded with brand new wingless 737 fuselages headed to the factory behind us.
"That is so cool," I hear someone say.