Kapikoy, Turkey (CNN) -- Hamide Yeni is a woman on the hunt.
The man Yeni is looking for is Faruk Platin, one of the 600 residents of Kapikoy.
Last fall, a court sentenced him to 15 months in prison for assault, after his 30-year old wife Sidika was hospitalized with trauma wounds.
But barely two months later, a local criminal court asked that Sidika and her children be handed back to Faruk Platin.
On a snowy day last December, local women's rights activists like Hamide Yeni could do little more then watch helplessly, as Faruk Platin led his mutilated wife away from the courtyard, back to the village where they lived.
In fact, according to a 2009 Turkish government report, 42 percent of women surveyed said they had been the victims of either physical or sexual abuse by their husband or partner.
Meanwhile, one in ten Turkish women were injured by such violence while pregnant.
Over the past 15 years, Turkey has adopted several progressive pieces of legislation to protect women, including a 1998 Protection Order against Domestic Violence.
"The law prohibits violence against women, including spousal abuse, but the government did not effectively enforce it," the U.S. State Department said in its 2009 human rights report on Turkey.
Not long after Sidika Platin returned to the village of Kapikoy, neighbors and relatives began contacting authorities, reporting that her husband was once again beating her.
"That man started beating my daughter the day she put on her wedding dress and he has been violent with her ever since," said Cemile Ozer, Sidika's mother.
On July 15, Faruk Platin brought his wife to the hospital in Van.
Doctors at Van hospital said Sidika had trauma marks on various locations on her head, infections from injuries, a fever and there was a third-degree burn in the shape of an iron on her back.
"Usually if a woman comes in who has been beaten, she will say 'I fell down the stairs' or 'I bumped into the refrigator," Cankaya said.
Meral Demirbas, the district governor of Saray, told CNN an arrest warrant has been issued for Faruk Platin, who is on the loose.
In village of Kapikoy, where many residents eke out a living herding sheep, Yeni goes house to house, dressed in a long skirt and loose headscarf, asking locals why they did not speak up about the violence that had been taking place in their community.
"When there is violence, it doesn't matter if it's your relative," Yeni responds.