"History will ultimately judge  the decisions that were made  for Iraq and  I'm just not going to be around to see the final verdict," the two-term president told CNN in a wide-ranging interview.
"You learn that life doesn't end after you're president," Bush said.
And so the challenge is how to live life to its fullest.
The former president said he knows the library dedication will re-stir the debate about his presidency, and he conceded the library is in part an effort by him and supporters to influence history's verdict.
Bush said.
"I know this, that  Laura and I gave  the presidency eight years of our life.
And  I am excited about  what we're going to do here."
Then, the dress Laura Bush wore to a state dinner on September 6, 2001, for then-Mexican President Vicente Fox.
Visitors can relive big Bush administration policy debates, and read and listen to some of the advice given to the president at the time.
Never known as one to second-guess himself, the former president conceded problems in administering the Iraq war but was adamant he believed history would embrace the decision to go to war.
"The museum  is a -- it does give people the opportunity to hear  the different points of view that  I got on these particular issues," he said.
The purpose of which is to try to show people what it's like to be the president.
"No, it was never strained," Bush said.
Yeah, he didn't agree with that decision.
George Bush: Insurrection.
...
Hopefully people will go to the Decision Points Theater and say, "Wow, I didn't understand that."
George Bush: No, I don't.
And a  president just has to understand that not every issue  gets solved  during his presidency.
George Bush: Well, big Jeb, you know, he's got a decision to make.
George Bush: I think it's important to set priorities in life.
And there's nothing more important, I think, and Laura thinks as well, to help somebody live.
Laura Bush: Who would have thunk it?
George Bush: I relax.
And I get the satisfaction out of completing a project.