On the Republican side: The majority of the House seats will be held by white men -- a group which far outnumbers the now dwindled numbers of House GOP women and minorities after the losses of two minority members and about a half dozen women from that caucus.
They are extraordinary leaders who will make our House Democratic caucus the first caucus in history, in the history of civilized government, to have a majority of women and minorities in the caucus."
The stark demographic and ideological differences now reflected in the House will also likely lead to increased partisan showdowns over entitlement spending, education, health care and immigration reform, political and cultural experts say.
The shift is the result of an increase in the Hispanic population and concerted efforts among the Democratic leadership to recruit and support female and minority candidates coupled with the effect of redistricting, which created large majority minority districts in states such as California, Florida and Texas.
Though there has been an increase in women elected to federal office, there is still room for progress, Jennifer Lawless, director of Women & Politics Institute at American University, said.
"What Republicans (in state legislatures) did in redistricting was purge a lot of blacks and Latinos out of their congressional districts," Wasserman said.
Losses among moderate, white, male "blue dog" Democrats and Republican women and minorities further helped change the face of Congress, Wasserman said.
The House's congressional makeover occurs as a battle looms over immigration reform, which could not only test the new-found political sway of minorities but also the Republican Party's ability to redirect on the issue, said Andra Gillespie, an associate professor of political science at Emory University in Atlanta.
But politically, Republicans, who hold control of the House, have little incentive to compromise, Wasserman said.
Republicans "can't continue to write off demographics," Lawless told CNN.
When that happens, Congress could see the type of political alliances that are now considered rare.