Rodney King, whose beating by Los Angeles police in 1991 was caught on camera and sparked riots after the acquittal of the four officers involved, was found dead in his swimming pool Sunday, authorities and his fiancee said.
There were no preliminary signs of foul play, De Anda said, and no obvious injuries on King's body.
Kelly -- who was a juror in King's lawsuit against the city of Los Angeles in 1994 -- told police King was an "avid swimmer," but that she was not, De Anda said.
"Although his beating will forever be thought of as one of the ugliest moments in the history of the city of Los Angeles and its police department, the victimization of Mr. King and the circumstances that followed created an atmosphere that allowed LAPD and the city to make historic disciplinary and community-based reforms that have made for a better police department and a better city as a whole."
In an interview in 2011, he recalled he had been drinking and was headed home from a friend's house when he saw a police car following him and panicked, thinking he would be sent back to prison.
"I saw all those apartments over there, so I said, 'I'm gonna stop right there,'" he said.
An amateur cameraman caught the scene as four white police officers struck King more than 50 times with their wooden batons and used a stun gun on him.
The video of the beating appeared on national television two days later, focusing attention on the issue of racially-motivated police brutality.
But following a three-month trial in the predominantly white Los Angeles suburb of Simi Valley, three of the officers were acquitted of all charges.
"They didn't see (King) get up and run at Powell."
On the third day of rioting, King emerged from seclusion to make a plea: "People, I just want to say, can we all get along?
Nearly a year later, the four officers stood trial in federal court on civil rights charges.
He told CNN in 2011 that slurs were used, but said he vacillated on the stand because his mother had told him to avoid talking about race.
I just hope we just get one," King said.
"...
Like, 'He broke the law.
No one deserves to get beat like that."
"The trouble that (people) see me in is a part of my life that I'm working on," he said in 2011.
He said King struggled with his sobriety.
"He was a wonderful, kind and gentle man," said Dr. Drew Pinsky of "Celebrity Rehab," who also appears on CNN sister network HLN.
The ranks of Los Angeles police are much more diverse than they were at the time of King's beating.
King said last year on the 20th anniversary of his beating that he has forgiven the officers who beat him.
Overheard on CNN.com: Rodney King 'had demons.