Will it be the oddly named Wii U, Nintendo's attempt to update its aging Wii console for a new wave of gamers?
"I think we may be seeing the last generation of dedicated handheld gaming systems with the PS Vita and Nintendo 3DS," said Blair Herter, co-host G4TV's "X-Play."
Many analysts, including Herter, think this year's E3 won't have as much bang as previous shows.
Nintendo is the only one of the Big Three console makers -- a trio that includes Microsoft and Sony -- that will be demonstrating a new gaming system this year -- the Wii U.
While the Wii U was previewed in more primitive form at last year's E3, there have reportedly been some changes in how the console looks and what it can do.
At last year's E3, Nintendo showed a Wii U video demo featuring gameplay from Xbox 360 and PlayStation games.
Some observers think the current lineup of consoles -- the Wii, Sony PlayStation 3 and Microsoft Xbox 360 -- will all be replaced by newer systems by late 2013.
Sony is expected to make a big push for games for its PS Vita handheld console.
Microsoft will concentrate its E3 efforts on development for the popular Kinect motion controller and additional games for the venerable Xbox 360.
Microsoft also may announce new partnerships with TV broadcasters and programs in an effort to further transform the gaming console into a home entertainment center.
Other exclusive, unannounced titles for the Microsoft console and Kinect are also expected -- although some franchises may be holding out for a next-generation console in a year or so.
On the other end of the gaming spectrum, there are also plans for several new massive multiplayer online games.
But the game's release was pushed back to February 2013, and creative director Ken Levine said the next time people will see the game is when it's ready to go in the box for delivery.
Despite persistent rumors, Valve Software has said it doesn't expect to reveal any new hardware -- or popular games such as "Half-Life 3" or "Portal 3" -- next week.
And what are you most looking forward to later this year?