Hurricane Readiness - Consider how prepared some Americans are for hurricane season.
CARL AZUZ, CNN STUDENT NEWS ANCHOR: Fridays are awesome!
I'm Carl Azuz.
One of the big issues: Israeli settlements in the Palestinian-controlled West Bank.
Now, this town is right up against Jerusalem, in fact many people consider it part of Jerusalem, but it's separated from Jerusalem by the Israeli so-called security barrier, what the Palestinians call the apartheid separation wall.
I'm Ben Wedeman, CNN, reporting from East of Jerusalem on the occupied West Bank.
At least eight people were killed in the violence and dozens of others were wounded.
GEORGE RAMSAY, CNN STUDENT NEWS: Here's the deal: Today's Money Word is budget.
AZUZ: The state of California is facing a budget crisis.
Now, he says California has to make some severe cuts.
SIMON: When he graduates from high school next month -- he's number three in his class -- Rommel would be the first person in his family to go to college.
The state facing an unprecedented deficit is looking at ways to save billions, and Governor Schwarzenegger has proposed slashing what are called Cal Grants, money that helps pay tuition for students from low income families.
ROMELL MOORE: The whole way through school, the teachers and all that tell you as long as you get good grades and all that, the state and the system will find a way to send you to school.
NANCY ROMAN, COLLEGE COUNSELOR: Our main problem is just getting students to even look at college, because in their head, already, its been ingrained that it's too expensive as well as with parents; they don't want students to apply, because, "Oh, it's too expensive," so we always talk about about Cal Grants.
ROMELL MOORE: By helping me go to school they won't have another person on welfare just taking state money to survive.
Tropical depressions are assigned numbers; they don't get names until they become tropical storms.
AZUZ: We already have our first of the year.
John Zarrella looks at how prepared we are as hurricane season begins.
Surely, you've heard the chorus of warnings.
ZARRELLA: The New Orleans mayor.
ZARRELLA: The Hurricane Specialist.
A new Mason-Dixon poll sponsored by the National Hurricane Survival Initiative found most people surveyed from Maine to Texas have done little to get ready, despite recent big ones: Katrina, Rita and, last year, Ike.
Every year, surveys find hurricane apathy pretty much unchanged, no matter how bad the season was.
ZARRELLA: But this year, emergency managers fear because of the economy, many people can't afford to stock up.
ZARRELLA: If they just can't, experts say now's the time to come up with a plan to evacuate.
Mike Keen is an artist and a barista at the same time.
AZUZ: But for most of us, this would be a deal breaker: worms for lunch.
AZUZ: Well, they would have, if they could've wormed their way out of this.
But if the worms' woes seem in bad taste, they still make for one good segment.
I guess there'll be no chirping on this trip Off the Beaten Path.
Hope you have a great one.