(CNN) -- The deadliest Ebola outbreak in history continues to plague West Africa as leaders scramble to stop the virus from spreading.
"No doubt the Ebola virus is a national health problem," Sirleaf said.
Health officials are worried about the virus spreading to other countries in the region.
Lagos State Health Commissioner Dr. Jide Idris said authorities are working to identify people who may have come in contact with the man on his flights.
Sawyer flew first to Ghana before he went to Togo and then switched planes to fly to Nigeria, according to the health commissioner.
It is unlikely the virus would spread on a plane unless a passenger were to come into contact with a sick person's bodily fluids, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
"When the Ebola outbreak hit, he took on responsibilities with our Ebola direct clinical treatment response, but he was serving in a missionary hospital in Liberia prior to his work with Ebola patients," said Melissa Strickland, a spokeswoman for the organization.
After testing positive for Ebola, he went into treatment at a Samaritan's Purse isolation center at ELWA Hospital in Paynesville City, Monrovia.
Another American working with Samaritan's Purse has also been infected.
She had teamed up with the staff from Samaritan's Purse to help fight the Ebola outbreak in Monrovia when she got sick.
Sierra Leone's minister of health and sanitation called the doctor a national hero for the sacrifices he has made in trying to stop the outbreak.
It can also spread through contact with an object contaminated by an infected person's bodily fluids.
While the World Health Organization has mobilized to fight the epidemic, it can be a difficult one to stop.
There has never been a confirmed case of Ebola spreading to a developed country, said Kamiliny Kalahne, an epidemiologist with Doctors Without Borders.
"This is because people generally transmit the infection when they are very sick, have a high fever and a lot of symptoms -- and in these situations, they don't travel.
Stephan Monroe, CDC's deputy director of the National Center for Emerging & Zoonotic Infectious Diseases, said the CDC is working with American health care providers to educate them about Ebola.