"He woke up in the middle of the night and started screaming and told everyone to run out of the house," said Chris Dronett, Shane Dronett's wife.
Only three years after retiring from the NFL in 2006, Shane was suffering.
"There is evidence of CTE in his brain making him yet another former NFL player who had definite CTE," said Chris Nowinski, co-director of the traumatic encephalopathy center.
CTE can also diminish brain tissue and is associated with memory loss, depression, impulsive behavior and rage.
Researchers believe that the battering Shane Dronett took as an NFL lineman -- and the hits he accumulated over two decades of playing -- might explain his brain's deterioration.
"What we know is that by definition, a lineman will have their head hit almost every play of every game and every practice," said Dr. Robert Stern, co-director of the BU CSTE.
Chris said her husband never let a concussion deter him.
"Shane didn't come out of games because he always said NFL players are so expendable," said Chris.
When Shane was found to have a brain tumor in 2007, at the height of his unorthodox behavior, it was actually a glimmer of hope for his wife.
Shane's neurosurgeon said that he most likely had the tumor all his life and that the benign growth could not explain his behavior, Chris said.
"He called us 100 times a day, wondering where we were and we'd tell him we're in Utah ... and he just didn't believe it," said Chris.
"I saw the gun, and I ran out the front door," said Chris.
What Chris had heard was the firing of the gun that killed Shane when he turned the gun on himself.
Two years removed from the terrible events of that January morning, Chris finds some solace knowing that a brain disease that could explain why she and her daughters lost Shane.
I didn't know other players were going through this type of stuff," said Chris.
Chris says that if she could speak directly to players, "I would tell them what I went through, what Shane went through and what other people I know have gone through and then let them make that decision.