But that was far from the only secessionist movement in American history.
1.
However, most of the island's inhabitants were his followers, so he essentially became King of Beaver Island.
2.
), affectionately known as "Yoopers," have been trying to secede and form the State of Superior since as far back as 1897.
The secessionist drive lives on today, as numerous grassroots organizations are trying to muster support for another official attempt at an independent U.P.
3.
But just three months later, as the Fourth of July approached, The Great Republic of Rough and Ready wanted to have a celebration (which seems odd considering they were no longer technically Americans).
4.
After numerous legal attempts to have the checkpoint removed, on April 23, 1982, Key West mayor Dennis Wardlow declared the Florida Keys were seceding from the Union.
While officially the Republic only existed for one minute, the tongue-in-cheek spirit of the rebellion lives on.
5.
Feeling that the Democratic southern half of Wyoming was not working in conjunction with the rest of the state, a secessionist movement was launched by northern Republicans in 1939 to create a new state that would better serve its more conservative population.
6.
The State of Jefferson
Mental Floss: Thomas Jefferson
While the official movement might have died out, the residents of this region still hold the concept in their hearts, with many identifying themselves even today as the population of the great state of Jefferson.
7.
To display their dissatisfaction, McDonald County drew up papers of secession and presented them to the state legislature, declaring itself the independent McDonald Territory.
So in order to end this mock rebellion, the state declared that state employee retirement pension payments would be suspended for McDonald County, all current state employees would be fired, and all state funding would be withheld.
8.
Many Alaskans felt they were denied more options on the issue, prompting a land developer named Joe Vogler to organize a re-vote that would offer Alaskans four possibilities -- remain a territory, become a state, take commonwealth status, or become a separate nation.
I've got no use for America or her damned institutions," Vogler spearheaded the Alaskan Independence Party (AIP), and his campaign has twice topped 5 percent of the vote.
Never a supporter of the plebiscite idea, Hickel left the AIP and rejoined the Republicans in 1994.
Entire contents of this article copyright, Mental Floss LLC.