More needles litter the rocky banks of the Irrawaddy River, near the terminal where boatmen ship fuel, vegetables and the occasional foreign tourist up and down the waterway.
I think 65% or 70% of young people use drugs," says Reverend Samson Hkalam, the head of the Kachin Baptist Convention, the largest group of churches in the state.
Some Kachin community leaders argue drug abuse now claims more lives than the decades-long conflict, which is estimated to have forced more than 100,000 people to flee their homes in the last three years.
"Drug problems are not unique to Kachin state or Myanmar for that matter," he says, before claiming that government efforts to combat the region's drug problem have been successful.
Community leaders send out volunteers to clean used needles off the streets, while church groups organize raids against suspected drug dealers, sharing photos and videos of what they say are confiscated narcotics that they subsequently burn.
One of them, the Light of the World camp, is a compound on the banks of the Irrawaddy surrounded by 10-foot high aluminum walls as well as a guard tower.
"We need to have the walls," says Zau Tu, a pastor leading the team who was treating at least 18 patients at the camp.
At faith-based rehabilitation camps like Light of the World, counselors don't administer methadone -- the synthetic opioid often used to treat heroin addicts.
But patients spend their first week in rehabilitation overcoming drug withdrawal symptoms while locked in a prison-like room that Ahga called the "prayer room."
He and the other patients say heroin and other drugs are bought and sold in the open in an outdoor market near the jade mines.
Asked why counter narcotics officers do not intervene in Hpakant, Sai Thein Zaw of the Central Committee for Drug Abuse Control in Myitkyina blames the Kachin insurgency.
"It is difficult to work in places like Hpakant because peace has not been achieved between the government and Kachin State," he says.
The scene at an overgrown cemetery near a camp for families displaced by the conflict underscores the scale of the heroin epidemic.
Against this macabre backdrop of death and drug abuse, our team encounters a couple of men injecting heroin at sunset.
"If I have more money, I will use more [heroin]," the man says.
Their used needles lie discarded in the grass.