The 31-year-old is captain of top Japanese club Vegalta Sendai, and also plays for the national side of North Korea -- which in the past has faced allegations of mistreatment of its sports teams after major events.
A hero to football fans in both Japan and North Korea, Ryang symbolizes the unique power of sport to break down boundaries despite deep-seated differences.
"I think 90% of the Vegalta's supporters don't care about whether he is North Korean or Japanese," local businessman Shuichi Kanno, a loyal club fan, told CNN.
"I wondered if people would cheer me, a North Korean, but once I was on the team and started playing, I felt l like I was being supported a lot," he said.
The subsequent Korean War led to two bitterly divided states in the North and South, and Korean immigrants left in Japan also split into separate communities.
But the limited range of sporting opportunities in his early schooling also played an inadvertent role in his subsequent professional career.
It was not long before international recognition arrived -- though not for Japan ("I have never thought about it") but through his upbringing and family ties, for North Korea.
Ryang did impress enough to secure further call-ups, one of a small cadre of Japan-based players with a similar background, who represent North Korea.
But it is in club football in the highly competitive J-League where he has made the biggest impression, with Vegalta emerging as challengers for the first division title in recent seasons.
Kanno, a restaurant owner in the coastal town of Kesennuma which was heavily hit by the tsunami, said Ryang and his teammates made all the difference in those terrible times for the area.
However, aside from their interest in the trappings of the affluent lifestyle in Japan, Ryang said his teammates were well acquainted with the action from major football leagues such as the English Premier League and Spain's La Liga.
So when North Korea qualified for the 2010 World Cup finals in South Africa, drawn to play mighty Brazil in the first group match, it's safe to say they would have known all about Kaka and Robinho and their teammates.
Ryang had starred in North Korea's lifting of the AFC Asian Challenge Cup in the World Cup year, contributing goals from midfield ("every goal felt amazing") and also helped the team retain the trophy last year.
Despite being in the autumn of his career, Ryang has entertained no thoughts of retiring and retains a real love for his sport.
I do not have any favorite model, but when I am allowed to test drive one, I love it instantly and end up buying it," he says.
"As I am not a player blessed with speed, I tend to drive a fast car.