Now plans are under way to go back, even as the future of U.S. human space exploration is under close scrutiny and pressure is growing on NASA to aim for another alien world.
Constellation grew of out the Vision for Space Exploration, outlined by President George Bush in 2004, but its future now lies in the hands of the U.S. Human Space Flight Plans Committee.
Watch why there is a new space race »
"It's like having your sports car that's super safe and your large SUV," said John Olson, director of the NASA office that plans and integrates programs including Constellation.
Orion's first manned flight -- scheduled for 2015 -- will take it to the international space station.
NASA.gov: Watch what it might look like to land on the lunar south pole
When humans are ready to go, the agency envisions seven-day missions at first, followed by 180-day stays once a lunar outpost is in place.
A potential manned mission to the Red Planet wouldn't take place until at least 2030, Olson added.
"We won the moon race; now it's time for us to live and work on Mars," Aldrin wrote in a commentary for CNN.
Aldrin plans to present his vision to the U.S. Human Space Flight Plans Committee, Popular Mechanics reported.
But Mars exploration advocates say the country is now much closer to being able to send humans to Mars than it was to sending them to the moon in 1961, when President Kennedy called for a lunar mission by the end of that decade.
Zubrin, who plans to testify before the U.S. Human Space Flight Plans Committee next month, said that if President Obama were to commit the nation to a mission to Mars this year, astronauts could be there by the end of his potential second term in office.
"Relying on the Russians between when we're retiring the shuttle and having the Constellation program flying is something that I'm not very proud of," said former Kennedy Space Center Director Bob Crippen, who piloted the first space shuttle mission in 1981.
NASA's Olson called the gap a "significant challenge," but said there are no plans to keep the space shuttles flying beyond their current manifest.
CNN's Kim Segal contributed to this report.