However, she says, local and state investigators have done neither to support their theory that Lennon Lacy hanged himself one summer night.
She says she's long lost confidence in the Bladenboro Police Department and the North Carolina State Bureau of Investigation.
The last time Lacy saw and heard her son was August 28.
Around 10:30, Lennon left his family's small apartment and headed down a dirt road.
"It was unreal.
"He didn't do this to himself," Lacy says.
However, North Carolina's Chief Medical Examiner Dr. Deborah Radisch declared his death a suicide.
The family says Lennon had not changed his routine and was focused on college and football -- and distracted by his girlfriend.
Lacy did not like their drastic age difference.
I also, initially told him how I felt - that I did not approve of it," Lacy says.
The NAACP hired Florida-based forensic pathologist Christena Roberts to analyze the case and Dr. Radisch's autopsy, completed for the state.
The crossbar of the swing set frame he was found hanging from was 7-foot-6, according to the NAACP review.
Lacy says she told investigators that the belts used to fashion the noose did not belong to Lennon.
Those were not his belts," Lacy says.
Also, the shoes Lennon was wearing when his body was found were not his, according to his family.
Those shoes were not with Lennon's body when he arrived at the state medical examiner's office, according to the NAACP review.
She would have likely called the (manner of death) 'pending' while awaiting toxicology and investigation but the (local medical examiner) had already signed the (manner of death) as suicide," according to the NAACP review.
However, in the summary of the case, written the day Lennon was found, the local medical examiner asked "did he hang self?
"The comments that were released by the NAACP were a synopsis of a professional exchange between the NAACP's independently-retained forensic pathologist and Dr. Radisch," according to a spokesperson for the North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services.
That's all I can say," Lacy says.