Both judgments were offered Friday on the dozens of Russian trucks that have rolled into eastern Ukraine, a move Russian leaders cast as necessary to address a humanitarian crisis and a Ukrainian official characterized as an "invasion" of his nation by its mighty neighbor to the east.
As of 11:30 p.m. (4:30 p.m.
However, the Red Cross said it wasn't accompanying them due to the "volatile security situation" -- a reference to continued fighting between pro-Russian rebels and Ukrainian forces.
To Russian President Vladimir Putin, it is Ukraine's government -- not his -- that's being irresponsible and fueling instability in eastern Ukraine.
The British ambassador to the United Nations said that Russia had no support at a U.N. Security Council meeting Friday on the topic.
"The disregard of international humanitarian principles raises further questions about whether the true purpose of the aid convoy is to support civilians or to resupply armed separatists," Rasmussen said in a statement.
The pair concurred, too, that the convoy "is a further provocation and a violation of Ukraine's sovereignty" and called for the stop "of Russian personnel, military equipment and armored vehicles into eastern Ukraine."
"Russia must remove its vehicles and its personnel from the territory of Ukraine immediately," Kirby told reporters.
"If (Russia does) not remove the convoys, we will be making determinations with our international partners about how to ratchet up the costs and consequences on them," Rhodes said.
The second official said the United States has believed for weeks that some Russian troops have crossed the border as part of the convoys of military gear and weapons moving from Russia into Ukraine.
Ukraine has time and again accused Russia of effectively fomenting rebellion by supporting rebels -- including militarily -- in eastern Ukraine, some of whom continue to hold territory there despite a push by Ukraine's military.
He told reporters that Russia received "official acceptance by Kiev authorities" for the convoy, and that Moscow is staying in touch with Ukrainian officials to make sure there are no problems in the process of distribution of the aid.