(CNN) -- Meat is murder?
"Cultured meat would have a lot of advantages," said Jason Matheny of research group New Harvest.
Meat and livestock farming is also the source of many human diseases, which he claims would be far less common when the product is raised in laboratory conditions.
Conventional meat production is also hard on the environment.
In-vitro meat is made from samples of animals conventionally slaughtered.
The factor that could take the research from the lab to the store and into refrigerators around the world is its remarkable commercial potential.
The Netherlands' Government has also invested around $4 million in Dutch research into in-vitro meat production.
"We think that a technology to produce cultured ground meats -- burgers, sausages, nuggets, and so forth -- could be commercialized within ten years," said Matheny.
Both conventional and cultured meat is made of muscle tissue.
"If cultured meat looks, tastes, and costs the same as regular meat, then I think acceptance will be high.
One obvious touchstone for how in-vitro-meat will be received by the public is perhaps the way GM crops were -- or were not - accepted around the world, something that Matheny draws encouragement from.
If cultured meat looks, tastes, and costs the same as regular meat, then do we care that it's produced in a steel tank, rather than in an animal farm?
The more we learn about how meat is produced now, the more in-vitro meat looks like a better alternative."
Rather, we should be making it easier and more affordable to raise livestock in a safe, humane and ecologically sensitive manner," she told CNN.
Gillian Madill, Genetics Technologies spokesperson for Friends of the Earth, thinks that clear parameters for in-vitro development need to put in place: "If we can successfully develop these products, what is the defining line between lab-grown meat and natural animals?"
"With India and China doubling their meat consumption every decade, there's no sustainable way to satisfy the growing global appetite for meat without a significant improvement in technology," said Matheny.
What do you think of in-vitro meat?
Do you think it could be a solution to the problems connected to meat production and climate change?