European leaders Saturday held telephone talks with Russian President Vladimir Putin and his Ukrainian counterpart after a Ukrainian military plane was shot down by separatists, killing all 49 people on board, officials said.
On Saturday, French President Francois Hollande and German Chancellor Angela Merkel held a telephone discussion with Putin on the crisis in Ukraine, according to the Elysee Palace and the Kremlin.
In a phone conversation with Hollande, Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko urged the European Union to immediately consider sanctions against Russia, including the termination of "military-technical cooperation," Poroshenko's office said.
In a statement, Poroshenko said the army and state border service had closed 248 kilometers of Ukraine's border.
"President Obama made clear that de-escalation depends upon Russia ceasing support for separatists in eastern Ukraine and stopping the provision of arms and materiel across the border, and we urge Russia to do so."
The plane was also carrying military machinery and supplies, the ministry said.
The person who left it was spotted but fled without detonating it.
Ukraine's acting Interior Minister Arsen Avakov claimed Thursday that three Russian tanks had crossed the border into Ukraine as part of a larger armored column, prompting a skirmish between Ukrainian and Russian forces.
But the United States also believes tanks and heavy weapons have crossed into Ukraine from Russia after moving from a deployment site in southwest Russia, State Department spokeswoman Marie Harf said Friday.
On June 11, 10 main battle tanks can be seen at the site, NATO said.
In fact, they do not have markings at all, which is reminiscent of tactics used by Russian elements that were involved in destabilizing Crimea," the NATO statement said.
On Friday, the Kiev government announced that an operation targeting pro-Russian separatists in the city of southeastern port city of Mariupol had been successful.
But the unrest hasn't ended.
Pro-Russian separatists wielding automatic weapons and grenades attacked Ukraine border service vehicles Saturday near the city, Ukraine's State Border Service said.
Also Thursday, Vitaly Churkin, Russia's U.N. ambassador, said he would introduce a resolution on Ukraine at the U.N. Security Council in light of what he said was a deteriorating situation in the country.