Since then, the United States has provided advisers to the Iraqi military in its fight with ISIS and has bombed ISIS positions.
And should the United States get more actively involved on the front lines of the fight, at least in Iraq, where the government is pushing for greater American involvement in its fight against ISIS?
U.S. officials assert the coalition has killed more than 6,000 ISIS fighters since the start of the campaign.
So if the CENTCOM campaign is killing around 1,200 ISIS fighters a month and yet ISIS continues -- at least for the moment -- to recruit an estimated 1,000 fighters from overseas a month, the campaign against them has succeeded only to a modest degree.
Indeed, the introduction of American forward air controllers to call in precise U.S. airstrikes and of U.S. Special Forces embedded with Iraqi units on the front lines will ultimately be necessary if the goal of American policy is to defeat ISIS, rather than simply playing for a draw with the group, which is, de facto, the current Obama administration policy.
Kurdish authorities said last week that they've cut a key supply line to ISIS in Mosul and have taken back some 300 square miles of land around the city from the group.
A number of estimates suggest that ISIS controls a population of around 8 million people in Iraq and Syria.
These affiliates aren't wasting any time in carrying out attacks in the name of ISIS.
On January 27, gunmen claiming to be affiliated with ISIS attacked the Corinthia Hotel in Tripoli, Libya, which is favored by government officials and foreigners.
The terrorist group known as the Province of Sinai has claimed responsibility for the attacks and had pledged allegiance to ISIS in November.
The best way to begin to reverse this is to cripple ISIS in Iraq, where the group has shown itself to be the most adept terrorist group of the modern era, taking control of cities like Mosul, whose population numbers 1.5 million people.
U.S. troops may be killed or injured, but there are also risks associated with the fact that the longer ISIS controls vast swaths of the Middle East, more and more foreign fighters will pour in from Western countries for training with the group and some will seek to bring their skills home to attack the West.