St. John, Indiana (CNN) -- With just his dream, determination and hard work, Bill Keith started a solar fan business nearly a decade ago out of his garage in northwest Indiana.
His first year, Keith said he barely made enough to scrape by -- about $39,000 in sales.
He eventually found a company that could help and needed the extra work about 90 miles away in Warsaw, Indiana.
Even his cardboard boxes were manufactured in nearby South Bend.
"Guy sat right there talking with me, said 'I really love your story and I'm going to push it up the rank,'" Keith said.
Keith and his wife were asked to come and -- prodded by his wife -- he stood up and told the president about his solar business.
Keith's success story provided good publicity for the White House which called again and again, using Keith to underscore the Obama administration's goal of pushing America towards new sources of clean energy.
There's the photo of him with the president and Vice President Joe Biden in Kokomo, another Indiana city hard hit by the recession, as well as an appearance with Sen. Sherrod Brown of Ohio and many others.
Strange bedfellows, perhaps, but it was a feelgood story of what one American could do in a time when the recession was strangling so many.
At these events, lawmakers talked about "how I created a solar product, how it's good for the environment, for business," he said.
It also was good advertising for Keith, who could never have afforded the publicity these appearances offered.
The irony is not lost on Keith: A man whose profile and company soared because of the administration's energy policy is now falling apart because of a new Obama anti-dumping policy involving China.
While 95 percent of Keith's fans are American-made, he has yet to find a U.S. company that can make the small customized solar panels that make his fans run.
Keith said the U.S. Customs Department has accused him of using Chinese-made solar panels, in violation of a tough import policy adopted in May at the behest of major U.S. solar companies.
According to Keith, the owner of the Hong Kong company that customizes his solar cells has stated in an affadavit that it buys the cells from the United States, Taiwan and Germany.
Unless he can show specific manufacturing documentation by August 29, Keith said he could be fined as much as 250 percent on his solar panels -- an effective rate of $270,000.
I've been trying to get help, no one can help me."
So he went back to the well one more time, pleading with Greg Nelson, deputy director of the White House Office of Public Engagement who Keith said had been his contact with the Obama administration.
Keith asked in the e-mail.
I don't know what is possible, but let me talk to a few folks asap.
"When Obama came in office, there were a lot of small business owners who said, 'Hey maybe he'll help break barriers and help owners' or he says he will, but it never trickles down that far to help us," Keith said.
I don't know.
Watch Anderson Cooper 360° weeknights 10pm ET.