(CNN) -- Legendary and now disgraced cyclist Lance Armstrong told Oprah Winfrey during a confessional interview that he hopes to compete again.
In part one of the interview, which aired Thursday, Armstrong admitted, unequivocally and for the first time, that he used performance-enhancing drugs on the way to seven Tour de France wins.
This is ugly stuff," he said during the second part of the interview.
"I deserve to be punished," Armstrong told Winfrey.
Armstrong, in the first part of the interview, talked about the culture of cycling at the time he competed, telling Winfrey that doping was widespread then and just as much "part of the job" as water bottles and tire pumps.
"To make that decision and to step aside was -- that was big," he said in Friday's broadcast.
Throughout both parts of the interview with Winfrey, Armstrong spoke steadily and showed little emotion.
But Armstrong was not telling the whole story, author David Coyle, who wrote a book about doping and the Tour de France, told CNN's Anderson Cooper on Thursday night.
We're flying to Valencia to do a blood transfusion.
Armstrong described his years of denial as "one big lie that I repeated a lot of times."
Former cyclist Tyler Hamilton, who raced as a teammate of Armstrong from 1998 to 2001, said it was nice to hear Armstrong own up to some of his faults.
"He's made the first step," Hamilton told CNN's Piers Morgan before the second interview aired.
"Lance Armstrong's decision finally to confront his past is an important step forward on the long road to repairing the damage that has been caused to cycling and to restoring confidence in the sport," union president Pat McQuaid said.
But he carried it with him into his sports career, "and that's bad," he said.
"We wouldn't be sitting here if I didn't come back," he told Winfrey.
In April, the USADA notified Armstrong of an investigation into new doping charges.
They include Betsy Andreu, wife of fellow cyclist Frankie Andreu, who said she overheard Armstrong acknowledge to a doctor treating him for cancer in 1996 that he had used performance-enhancing drugs.
"He could have come clean.