Barely 200 yards up the road, the crowd encountered a squad of armored Turkish riot police and a big police vehicle blocking the road.
Tuesday marked the second time in two days Turkish riot police used force against unsanctioned gatherings of political groups challenging the government.
It has also led to accusations by long-time supporters in Turkish newspapers that Turkey's Islamist-rooted prime minister is adopting the same authoritarian tactics of the secularist ancient regime.
The riots in Istanbul and other Turkish cities mark yet another day in a bloody 30-year cycle of violence between the Turkish state and the Kurds.
According to the Turkish government statistics, at least 680 Kurdish prisoners are now starving themselves, some for nearly 50 days.
But Kurdish partisans want to expand those linguistic freedoms.
The ICG report also cited Turkish Ministry of Justice statistics indicating Kurds have been targets of a massive wave of detentions, with more than 7,000 prisoners accused of PKK links thrown behind bars over the past several years.
The parents of some of those prisoners were in a tent in a park in Istanbul's Okmeydani neighborhood Tuesday morning, staging a sit-in to support their children on hunger strike.
"No one has the right to make our kids rot in jail like this for two and a half years," Polat said.
Last week, Turkey's Justice Minister made a televised appeal to prisoners to stop their hunger strike.
As squads of riot police and armored cars chased stone-throwing Kurds through the streets of Okmeydani, a police vehicle rounded a corner and started firing its water cannon at the tent where at least 20 mostly middle aged Kurdish women sat on carpets.
But less than five minutes later, armored police officers began ripping down the tent.
yelled a silver-haired Kurdish man named Ali Riza Bilgili, as he struggled to help a woman out of the tent.
another Kurdish man screamed.
You're only doing this because I don't have a gun."
Turkey's Kurdish conflict is still very far from over.