Port-au-Prince, Haiti (CNN) -- In the week since a 7.0-magnitude earthquake shattered this capital and jolted observers around the world, authorities have buried 70,000 bodies, about a third of the estimated final toll, officials said Tuesday.
"Despite all our efforts, situations, circumstances are such that we are disappointed in many cases on how this has been managed, beyond everybody's control," he said.
At least 28 of them are Americans, the U.S. State Department announced Tuesday.
In all, 43 international rescue teams composed of 1,700 people have carried out some 90 rescues, U.N. Secretary General Ban Ki-moon told reporters.
PAHO's Andrus said the need for blood donors was urgent, with the lack of refrigeration complicating medical workers' ability to store it safely.
U.S. Army Maj. Daniel Allyn, the deputy commander of the Joint Task Force Unified Response, said flights would be diverted to two alternate ports of entry within the next day or two to relieve the pressure.
Many roads that were impassable in the initial aftermath of the quake had been cleared so that supplies could be trucked to those in need, he said.
In Washington, U.S. Agency for International Development Administrator Dr. Rajiv Shah told reporters Tuesday night that the U.S. response has been "swift, aggressive and coordinated."
The military is going to help with organization and with supplies, Hyman said.
"They're going to help us get electricity, they're going to help us get food, they're going to help us get tents, they're going to help us get all the operating supplies in," he said.
About 2,000 U.S. troops were in Haiti, and more than 5,000 were off-shore on ships, said Maj. Gen. Daniel Allyn, the deputy commander of Joint Task Force Unified Response.
Keen, head of U.S. Southern Command, told CNN.
But one man said Haitians needed more relief supplies, not troops or guns.
Outside Haiti, people have contributed more than $220 million to major U.S. relief groups, according to The Chronicle of Philanthropy, a newspaper covering nonprofit organizations.
But such incidents have so far been isolated, said Alain Le Roy, the United Nations peacekeeping director.
There has been a lot less violence in Port-au-Prince than there was before the earthquake," he said.