The fire that engulfed the Porsche carrying actor Paul Walker apparently did not erupt until a minute after the car clipped a light pole Saturday.
The autopsies were completed Tuesday, Los Angeles County Coroner Lt. Fred Corral said.
It is often done in cases involving criminal probes, but there has been no indication this is anything more than a traffic accident investigation.
Video  obtained by CNN Tuesday from a security camera posted on a building on the opposite side of the street from the crash does not show the Porsche Carerra GT crashing along a business park street in Valencia, California, Saturday afternoon.
As investigators searched for more information about the accident that killed the popular "Fast & Furious" actor on Saturday, one of his co-stars dramatically addressed grieving fans.
"My heart is hurting so bad no one can make me believe this is real," the singer and actor posted on Instagram.
"His heart was so big," he told CNN affiliate KCAL.
He would say, 'I don't know what to do.'"
"I'm just ... glad that every time I saw him, I told him I loved him," the father said.
Meanwhile a Los Angeles County Sheriff's Office probe is focused on the speed of the 2005 Porsche Carrera GT, the spokesman told CNN.
Richard Cohen told CNN that authorities received a tip Sunday suggesting that another car was at the scene racing the Porsche when it slammed into a light pole and burst into flames.
The car, which sold for $450,000 when new, is a notoriously difficult vehicle to handle, even for professional drivers, according to Autoweek magazine.
Antonio Holmes told the Santa Clarita Valley Signal newspaper that he was at the charity event when Walker and Rodas left for a ride in the Porsche.
Someone called it in and said it was a vehicle fire.
We tried.
Jim Torp, a car enthusiast who was at the charity event, said Walker was smiling as he got into the Porsche minutes earlier.
It's not uncommon for people to speed down that street, and two years ago deputies tried to crack down on that, he said.
The couple apparently did not know who Walker was, King said.
"Walker called the manager over and said, 'Put that girl's ring on my tab,'" she said.
The day Walker died he was at a holiday toy drive for Walker's charity hosted by the store that Rodas owned.
The box-office success of the surprise summer hit yielded numerous sequels.
And along with Vin Diesel, Walker was one of the franchise stalwarts.
Walker was in the middle of the seventh film in the "Fast & Furious" franchise.
"We don't know what they'll do here, or even if they'll just say, "It may be tasteless to proceed at all because we can't be showing Paul Walker in a speeding car, defying death in a movie that ended up being the way he died,'" O'Neil said.