The word "revolution" appears all around us, in commercial advertisements and political propaganda, until it seems to have lost all meaning.
The spark that began the revolution was something called Europe: a trade agreement with the European Union that many Ukrainians saw as a chance to enter a world of free trade rather than government syndicates, and the rule of law rather than overwhelming corruption.
In December, hundreds of thousands of people, from all parts of the country and all walks of life, were on the streets.
Although the Russian side promised that the loan was without conditions, Russian leaders then explained that disbursements could only follow when political stability had been established.
Ukrainians reacted as Americans would if the Bill of Rights one day disappeared.
The Ukrainian protesters did not do what most of us would have done.
At this point, the world began to react -- finally.
The Polish and German foreign ministers arrived to negotiate the transition that many people had wanted for weeks: a weakening of the Yanukovych's power and accelerated elections.
Yanukovych disappeared.
What happened in Ukraine had little to do with the outside world.
Russia has exercised influence in Ukraine by promising cash: The promise of 15 billion euros preceded the dictatorship laws, the promise of the release of a 2 billion tranche preceded the mass shootings.
The Ukrainian revolution took place without outside help.
Now Western financial aid will be needed to transform that revolution into stability.
This could include loans, quick free trade negotiations, financial institutions that offer microcredits, and visa-free travel for normal Ukrainians -- not just the billionaires.
The Ukrainian revolution, like any revolution, can fail.
Russian parliamentarians are now in Crimea, promising Russian citizenship to ethnic Russians there and suggesting that Russia will support a referendum on the detachment of Crimea from Ukraine and its attachment to Russia.
Their main motivation was the end of Moscow's influence in Ukraine, and so they can be provoked.
The cause of the Ukrainian protesters was not to change the world, but only to change their world.
If we don't understand the revolution in Ukraine, then we miss something special and unusual: a chance to support democracy.