Days after the bruising fight at the end of 2012 to avert the fiscal cliff that divided the House GOP conference -- as well as his own leadership team -- a dozen House Republicans broke with Boehner by not supporting him for speaker in the public vote on the House floor.
But after a three-day retreat of all House Republicans last week at a resort in Williamsburg, Virginia, GOP members appear to be regrouping and putting the messy squabbles behind them.
Polls show the GOP got the bulk of the blame.
Ryan, the House Budget Committee chairman, said the GOP was still determined to force Congress to take up major deficit-reduction measures, but summed up his message to reporters after a session with all House Republicans.
Acknowledging that another contentious face-off with the White House over the debt limit wasn't likely to end well for them, Boehner worked with a small group of members that included Ryan and other leading conservatives to come up with a plan to postpone that fight.
Instead, their legislation conditions the increase in the debt limit on a requirement that the Senate pass a budget -- something conservatives complain the upper chamber has failed to do the past four years.
South Carolina Rep. Mick Mulvaney, one of the dozen House Republicans who didn't vote to reelect Boehner speaker, told reporters after the retreat that he agreed it was better to push off the most contentious battle.
The tone coming out of the retreat signals that leaders convinced many of those pushing for broader changes that they need to rethink how realistic it is to send proposals out of the House only to hit a wall in the Senate.
"Maybe the freshmen might be a little more fiscally conservative than people expect them to be," Mulvaney said.
And House Democrats called the requirement for Congress to pass a budget a "gimmick."
Boehner told House Republicans at the retreat he'll look at what the administration is proposing, but he doesn't plan for the House to take any action until the Senate passes something, and that could be an uphill battle.
Rep. Greg Walden, who runs the House GOP 2014 campaign operation to retain and expand their majority, told reporters he tapped Rep. Jamie Herrera Beutler, the youngest female House member and a Hispanic, to help with outreach.