In his televized speech to the nation on Wednesday evening, Obama argued his proposed strategy of extended air strikes and use of local ground forces (but not American combat troops) against the extremists also known as ISIL and the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria was fundamentally different from past White House policies that led the U.S. to fight two Middle East ground wars in as many decades.
Like JFK, he may be starting a fight he cannot finish, which will run on and on for untold years.
He continued: "Our endless blessings bestow an enduring burden.
In 2008 Obama promised an end to the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, a new deal with the Muslim world, a reset in relations with Russia, and real-time nuclear disarmament.
Obama is gambling on the notoriously fractious Free Syria Army becoming a much more effective force than it has to date, and on Congress's willingness to underwrite it with up to $500 million in additional funds.
What will Obama do if and when an American airman is shot down and captured by the Syrian army?
The fact that Obama has sent 1,100 American servicemen and women back to Iraq to facilitate the airstrikes and help train local forces, and will now send an additional 475, is not reassuring.
Obama is relying heavily on the new multi-ethnic government in Baghdad to unite the fractured country behind the effort against ISIS.
But Iraq's new prime minister, Haider al-Abadi, a Shia like his predecessor, Nouri al-Maliki, is not a miracle worker.
There is no convincing sign as yet that they will launch a mooted Sunni Awakening II, taking on ISIS in the way they took on al Qaeda in 2007 under the tutelage of General David Petraeus.
Iran, which has tacitly supported U.S. strikes against ISIS in Iraq, may take a different view of attacks in the territory of its ally, al-Assad -- and set to work to counter them.
Without overt and practical backing from Saudi Arabia, other Gulf states, and for example, Jordan and Turkey, Obama's bombing campaign to deny ISIS safe haven may begin to look, to Muslims everywhere, like another deeply objectionable intervention by the western powers in the Middle East.
Given his shaky strategy and his performance to date, nothing can be ruled out.