Buffalo, New York (CNN) -- The rubble that blankets much of Port-au-Prince delivers the deadly verdict on decades of inadequate construction in my home nation.
I decided to study earthquake engineering, hoping that I would have time to get the education in designing against earthquakes, would get hands-on experience, share the knowledge with engineers back home, and advocate for the adoption of building codes and the integration of sound design criteria against such occurrences.
I know that it is critical that my country now examine what steps ought to be taken to prevent such massive loss of life in the future.
There was the flouting, or just ignorance, of international building codes developed by engineers to provide a framework in construction engineering and design, especially important in a country so susceptible to what we call "multiple hazards" -- earthquakes, hurricanes, storm surges, tsunami.
Very few buildings were designed by architects and engineers; most were built with no construction standards -- by wealthy and poor alike.
There must be an emphasis on the development of model cities in Haiti, which may intelligently, yet safely, integrate architectural local features -- such as building façades mimicking the fretted wood and intricate latticework that ornamented traditional "gingerbread" houses favored by tourists in the 1950s -- to lure visitors and stoke an economic rebirth.
The government also must adopt and enforce a comprehensive set of construction codes and regulations with a multi-hazard focus.
Haiti's building codes must be based on existing, well-tested research and emphasize the necessity for peer-reviewed design as an embedded layer of safety in the design process.
They would also provide hands-on experience to local engineers, who will need help from the international community as they learn skills required for designing multi-hazard structures to code, while providing a basis to hold them accountable in case of gross malpractice.
In the wake of such destruction, the construction sector can be the main driver for sustainable economic development in Haiti.