It is that of a young man alienated from mainstream society, with few friends, without a steady job, drifting from one place to another -- often with a history of petty crime and drug abuse.
Frequently they see radical Islam as a form of redemption from past misdeeds, one that also feeds an existing animosity toward authority and a sense of being "on the outside."
Analysis of the backgrounds of dozens of young men who have embraced militant Islam and eventually planned or carried out an act of violence shows that many have had troubled upbringings -- although there is no evidence they are more likely to come from poor than comfortable backgrounds.
His family members said they had not seen him in five years.
He converted to Islam two years ago and like many others appears to have been seduced by the online messaging of terrorist groups.
Richard Reid, who became known as the "shoe bomber" after he tried to blow up a trans-Atlantic flight in 2001, was also a troubled young man -- impressionable, dabbling in minor crime and drugs and ending up in a young offenders' detention center before converting to Islam.
After his release he too was influenced by radical preachers in London (as was another in the group).
Whether he was influenced by others or self-radicalized is unclear, but his path to militancy was rapid and dramatic.
A DJ and rapper in London, Abdel Bary had lyrics that suggested redemption from drug use through religion.
Abdel Bary claimed he was also seared by the memory of his father's arrest on terrorism charges.
And what is the smartest combination of greater surveillance and tougher laws on the one hand -- and prevention and community outreach on the other?
Even so, "early intervention through a joint community/law enforcement response is no guarantee that a person will not radicalize to violence," Public Safety Canada concluded.
But three years ago, after being charged with robbery, he asked a court to send him to jail for a year to help him kick his addiction to crack cocaine.
In some countries community leaders fear the balance is tipping more toward surveillance and tougher laws, to the neglect of prevention programs and community outreach.
James Brandon at the International Centre for the Study of Radicalisation and Political Violence wrote in War on the Rocks last month that "the UK has effectively given up trying to stop jihadists from being created.
But given resource-stretched governments -- scarred by the unpopularity of controversial outreach programs and struggling to keep tabs on "extremist travelers" to Syria and Iraq -- are increasingly reaching for law enforcement tools to prevent terror coming to their cities, tracking the "lone wolves" is unlikely to get any easier.