(CNN) -- Even if you know nothing about IndyCar Racing or NASCAR, the odds are you know the name Danica Patrick.
Now she's partnered with Sega for its new arcade racing game, "Sonic & All-Stars Racing Transformed."
Patrick, who was recently named Nationwide's most popular driver by NASCAR fans, took some time to play the new Sega game and talk about her own gaming background in this exclusive interview for CNN.
I played "Super Mario Bros." I played any kind of racing game that existed, I played "Track and Field."
Being able to be able to be a player along with Sonic the Hedgehog and all the other All-Stars is very flattering and it's very cool.
So to be in something like a Sega game is to me more cool because it's something that's not common, and it's not given that I would be in those games.
I think you need to find out for yourself how awesome I am in the game.
I think given the fact that we're in a racing environment, racing games tend to be something that's obviously really common, so growing up I've played them and some people continue to play them and I think it's a good fit.
If that was the case, then everyone would just play games.
I do think that they can.
But if it's in your head that it's going to help you to play a simulator or play a racing game, then it will help.
How have you seen video games evolve to become more than something just guys play?
I think it also is about being able to have fun, and the games just get better and better over time.
Us women are smart.
There are more easy ways for people to be able to play the games that they want to play, when they want to play them.
I'd like to think so.
With all the race teams I drive for and the different series I drive in, I have a lot of race cars at the track.
I don't need any more.
If you're listening on the radio to the race, you're going to hear a lot of spot reaction about where cars are and things like that.
It's just that you actually get to do it and it doesn't cost any money to crash the car.
That's the wonderful world of fantasy.