But come Saturday, countless millions of racing fans the world over will be in mourning for one of the greatest racehorses the sport has ever seen.
Unbeaten at two, three and four years old, Frankel's career yet seems too short for a talent that burned so bright.
For those who have yet to see Frankel in action, Saturday provides one last opportunity to witness a piece of racing history as the Henry Cecil-trained colt lines up in the showpiece Champion Stakes at Ascot Racecourse.
But Frankel's last race will also be his toughest yet, pitting him against the second best horse in the world on rating, Cirrus des Aigles, winner of this race last year and looking in imperious form after a stunning victory in his native France over the Prix de l'Arc de Triomphe weekend.
Ascot has already witnessed what was arguably the greatest win of Frankel's career -- maybe even the greatest win of any racehorse's career -- his 11-length victory in this year's Queen Anne Stakes at this year's Royal Ascot.
One year earlier, Frankel had started in the 2011 St James's Palace Stakes.
Notoriously undulating, the going for Saturday's race will be another test for the four-year-old, who has yet to prove himself over such soft ground.
While most racing insiders will doubtless hold the view that Frankel's sheer class will prevail, a cautionary note is sounded by the experience of Black Caviar; virtually identical conditions nearly caused a major upset earlier this season when the Australian sprinting sensation put her undefeated record on the line at Royal Ascot.
In a vintage year for racing that has included not only the daring of Black Caviar, the thrilling possibility of the first Triple Crown winner in four decades in Camelot, the bravado of the little German filly Danedream to capture the King George and Queen Elizabeth Stakes, Frankel's final curtain call has been designed to be the climax to one of sport's great narratives.
Henry Cecil, who has been knighted by the Queen, was unable to attend Frankel's brilliant win in the Sussex Stakes at Glorious Goodwood earlier season as he was receiving ongoing treatment for stomach cancer.
We are destined to think of Frankel every time we see one of his offspring at a race course.
In a little over a year from now, the first of Frankel's foals will be taking his or her first long-limbed steps in a paddock in some corner of England.
But if they inherit just some of their sire's speed, his aggression and his indomitable will to win, a little bit of Frankel's magic will live on.