The statement posted on the official Facebook page of the Supreme Council of the Armed Forces came as the clock ticked on the military's plan to suspend Egypt's constitution, dissolve the Islamist-led parliament and sideline the president, if Morsy does not find a way to end the unrest, military sources told Arab media and Reuters.
In a televised speech late Tuesday, Morsy declared he was elected president in balloting that was free and representative of the will of the people.
"The people of Egypt gave me the mandate for president.
In Morsy's place, the military has said it would install an interim council, made up mainly of civilians, until a new constitution can be drafted and a new president elected, the sources said.
While insisting they want no direct role in national politics, the military leaders appeared to be pressuring Morsy to restructure his government.
The growing unrest prompted U.S. President Barack Obama's administration to urge Morsy to call early elections, while warning the Egyptian military that it risked losing U.S. aid if it carried out a coup, senior administration officials told CNN.
Clashes were reported in at least one Cairo suburb between anti-government demonstrators and pro-Morsy protesters, according to Arab media.
They also have taken to other main squares in cities nationwide.
Although the U.S. is urging Morsy to call new elections, it did not say Morsy should step down immediately, the senior Obama administration officials said.
The officials said nothing in the Egyptian constitution gives Morsy the authority to call for new elections but said that may be the only way to end the crisis.
The officials said the United States has also warned the Egyptian military that a coup would trigger U.S. legislation that calls for cutting off all American aid.
Obama reiterated to Morsy that the United States does not support any party or movement in Egypt, it said.
Over the weekend, an Egyptian journalist died in a bomb attack on a Muslim Brotherhood office; four other local journalists were beaten and their camera equipment destroyed or stolen.
"That some of the revolutionaries are calling on the army to return to politics is a testament to how polarized Egypt is a year after the election of Morsy," Gerges said.
"Think of the millions of people who cheered Morsy after his election.
The military will want to see the influence of the Muslim Brotherhood reduced in government and in the constitution, Gerges said.
"It failed in the previous five elections we had in Egypt since the revolution, and they don't want to fail a sixth time," he said.
CNN's Tom Watkins, Ben Brumfield, Jamie Crawford, Schams Elwazer, Karen Smith, Elise Labott, Ben Wedeman, Ian Lee, Housam Ahmed and Salma Abdelaziz contributed to this report.