(CNN) -- Another State of the Union address, another road trip for President Barack Obama to push now-familiar policies that he said he would pursue on his own if Congress won't cooperate.
Obama heads to Wisconsin and Tennessee on Thursday, continuing a tradition of selling his policy prescription directly to the public after the ceremonial report to the nation.
He said what?
First Class Cory Remsburg, a disabled war veteran who sat next to First Lady Michelle Obama and waved with wounded limbs to a prolonged standing ovation.
Last year, 53% of respondents in a similar poll rated their response to the 2013 address as very positive.
"Let's make this a year of action," Obama said.
On issue after issue, he invited Congress to work with him but said he also would go it alone.
"We hope the President will join us in a year of real action -- by empowering people -- not by making their lives harder with unprecedented spending, higher taxes, and fewer jobs," she said.
On another major reform issue, Obama chided Republicans for trying to undermine his signature health care law that passed in 2010 without GOP support.
"The American people aren't interested in refighting old battles," Obama said.
Obama said he will order the U.S. Treasury to create a new federal retirement savings account called MyRA, a savings bond that would guarantee "a decent return with no risk of losing what you put in."
He urged Congress to work with him to close "wasteful, complicated loopholes that punish businesses investing here" and instead "lower tax rates for businesses that create jobs right here at home."
Along with his order raising the minimum wage for workers on federal contracts, Obama asked Congress to get on board with a Democratic proposal to raise the federal minimum to $10.10 per hour.
CNN's : Adam Aigner-Treworgy, Keating Holland, Leigh Ann Caldwell, Chelsea J. Carter, Becky Brittain, Brianna Keilar, Jim Acosta, Dana Bash, Deirdre Walsh, Jake Tapper and Paul Steinhauser contributed to this report.