(CNN) -- Jurors who convicted a man of three murders in a 2007 Connecticut home invasion and recommended he be put to death for his crimes said Tuesday that serving on the case changed their lives -- and took an emotional and sometimes physical toll.
Jurors recommended Monday that Steven Hayes, 47, should die for his role in the 2007 invasion of a home in Cheshire, Connecticut, that left Jennifer Hawke-Petit, 48, dead along with her daughters, 17-year-old Hayley Petit and 11-year-old Michaela Petit.
Cindy Hawke-Renn, Hawke-Petit's sister, said Tuesday she does not believe closure can ever exist in a case like this.
"I have a 10-year-old daughter at home," Cardona said.
"That is burned in my memory, those pictures of those girls," Calzetta said.
"It takes a toll on your body you don't even realize," she said.
Both jurors said it was hard not being able to talk about the case with their families or even each other during the trial.
Both said the jury took the case and their responsibility very seriously.
Cardona said it was important to him that Hayes receive the death penalty because "I knew that he would be in a cell by himself, secluded ... that's what he hated."
Those outside the jury room wondered why jurors took their time to decide on the death penalty, Calzetta and Cardona said -- their verdict came on the fourth day of deliberation.
"I have a very spiritual background, and I thought that this would be the only opportunity for this man to ever make peace with his Supreme Being, if he even has one," or to accept responsibility, Calzetta said.
Both Calzetta and Cardona said they did not buy the defense's claim that Hayes was merely a follower and KomisarjevskyCalzetta said.
...
Cardona said he did not believe testimony that Komisarjevsky triggered Hayes' rage by telling him, when he returned from the bank with Hawke-Petit, that the girls were dead.
Looking at the bank video of Hawke-Petit was particularly hard, she said, as jurors knew the woman was being brave and doing what she felt she had to do to save her family.
"It was a very emotional case and a very emotional two months," Cardona said.
Both Calzetta and Cardona said they felt privileged to have served alongside the others.
Cardona said he was struck by the Petit family telling jurors they were sorry the panel had to go through such an experience.
"...
"...
Calzetta said she plans to attend Komisarjevsky's trial because she wants to support the Petit family.