Both sides, negotiating in Baghdad, delivered proposals in the latest round of talks between Iran and six nations -- the United States, France, Russia, China, Britain and Germany.
Israel, which is believed to have its own nuclear arsenal, has said it may attack Iran to try to stop Tehran from developing nuclear weapons.
Asked whether relief from the tough Western sanctions imposed on Iran will be on the table, the official said, "There is no expectation it will happen as a result of this meeting.
The Western official said bilateral talks between European Union foreign policy chief Catherine Ashton and Iran's top nuclear negotiator, Saeed Jalili, had concluded.
The proposals address the world community's "concerns about the nature of their nuclear program," said Michael Mann, a spokesman for Ashton.
Mann said 20% uranium enrichment "is one of the issues that's addressed" in proposals Ashton put on the table.
The Baghdad meeting takes place a day after the head of the IAEA said he would soon sign an agreement with Iran, a sign that Tehran may have agreed to broader inspections of its nuclear facilities.
Meanwhile, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, who has repeatedly raised alarms about Iran's nuclear development, said Monday that the world powers "must show determination, not weakness" in the talks.
"Without a tightening of the sanctions, Iran will not stop nuclear program development," he said.
Leaders of the so-called Group of Eight -- the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, Germany, France, Italy, Japan and Russia -- called Saturday on Iran to comply with the requirements of the IAEA and open its doors to nuclear inspectors.
Amano said differences remained, but Jalili said they would not pose obstacles to signing the agreement.
The United States, France, Russia, China, Britain and Germany are called the P5+1, a reference to Germany and the other nations, permanent members of the U.N. Security Council.
CNN's Mohammed Jamjoom in Baghdad, Matthew Chance in London and Reza Sayah in Islamabad contributed to this report.