You can't play a guitar like Jimi, you can't sing like Freddie and yet you dream of being a rock star like Bowie.
Since 1996, this former bodega has been one of the primo showcases for local bands in NYC, and on Monday and Friday nights, their famous karaoke band gives accountants, baristas and repressed librarians a taste of the limelight.
Initially slated for demolition in 1999 until downtowners Joshua David and Robert Hammond started Friends of the High Line, the park now hosts more than 4.4 million visitors annually, which has actually become a problem.
Today, there are only three NYC delis to get a traditional pastrami sandwich: Carnegie Deli, 2nd Avenue Deli and Katz's Delicatessen.
), and then you proceed to the counter to order (your ticket will get marked depending on what you order).
P.S.
So the next time you're wondering what to do on a Friday night, take a chance and catch a movie you've probably never heard of.
The best way to see America's First Lady is to take the Circle Line Sightseeing cruise, which departs from Pier 83, down the Hudson River.
And a good alternative is a ride on the Staten Island Ferry, which gets pretty close to Lady Liberty, runs regularly and is free.)
A quick fix is only a gig away at this tiny concert venue where bands from all over the world come to jam.
Ask any New Yorker for a short list of must-sees in Central Park and they'll likely rattle off destinations like Strawberry Fields and Bethesda Fountain.
More than 11 million people have come here from all over the world since it opened in 2011, and in so doing, paid tribute to the indomitable human spirit.
The latter two venues have been around for the better part of a century, but all three attract the very best talent and have atmospheres that make for one of those late nights to remember.
New York is lousy with esoteric museums -- what, you've never heard of the Institute for the Study of the Ancient World on East 84th Street?
If you're not from New York -- and even if you are -- there's a good chance you're not a fan of baseball's greatest-ever team.