Bobby's been "outspoken" about his gender identity, said Archuleta.
The Girl Scouts of Colorado has since said it was an "inclusive" organization and "if a child lives life as a girl" he or she is welcome to join.
"A person is going to be who they are going to be," said Boston-based family therapist Terry Real.
It can be a complicated discussion, especially when terms like tomgirl, gender fluid or transgender are bandied about.
Gender identity and sexual orientation also are different.
Gender non-conforming children who do not receive support from their families are at higher risk for mental health issues, attempted suicide and drug use, said Real, citing research at the Family Acceptance Project.
...
The Family Acceptance Project, based at San Francisco State University, has produced videos to support families of transgender children.
Ryan said parents of non-conforming children should learn more about neighborhood schools.
You can work with schools," said Ehrensaft.
The writer, who said she uses a pseudonym to protect the safety of her family, said her son, Sam, 9, represents the gender spectrum -- one foot in the masculine world, one foot in the feminine.
"The problem is not our kids," Hoffman said.
Hoffman said some readers have called her a weak parent for letting Sam express himself.
And the culture more often raises eyebrows when a boy dresses as a girl than when a girl looks masculine.
They know what clothes they want to wear," Ryan said.
Parents need to be careful not to rush to a diagnosis and predict a child's eventual sexual orientation or gender identity, experts said.
Families also should be aware of what may lie ahead, Real said.
Joel Baum, director of education and training at Gender Spectrum, which promotes an "inclusive environment," said "more and more families are seeing their children express themselves a little differently from what others believe.
Gender confusion can be sign of a treatable mental disorder, according to Griggs.
"I'm not letting my child do something," parents might state, she says.
Felisha Archuleta, who has two older children, said Bobby is still interested in joining the Girl Scouts, but not the same unit he first came in contact with.
Archuleta said her son doesn't need counseling and does not the dress the way he does because of his environment.