But they didn't say anything about driving and then drinking," the man says to the camera.
The man, Richard Godbehere, posted the clip in February under the title "Let's Go Driving, Drinking!"
Godbehere is due in court in June, and police in Kaua'i told CNN the case will come down to whether a judge or jury believes him.
One expert told CNN that anything posted online is material the government can use as evidence to arrest and charge a person.
"In criminal cases, almost all evidence is discoverable and police can obtain the evidence," said Bradley Shear, a Washington-area lawyer specializing in social media law.
"It's like that old saying," said professor Susan Rozelle, who teaches evidence and criminal law at Stetson University College of Law in Gulfport, Florida.
One key piece of evidence was an Instagram photo of the two boys carrying the girl out of a house.
Just last month, two teenage girls were arrested and charged with intimidating a witness after police said they made threats against the victim on Twitter.
Later that day, an officer received a private Facebook message alerting her to a Facebook status update recently posted by Astoria resident Jacob Cox-Brown, 18.
:P"
Shear, the social media law expert, said he would never allow a client to post anything like that online.
"You want to focus on charging someone with something you can prove in the court of law," he said.
They made it to 18 stations before losing focus, according to a post about it on Mook-life.com, a blog about youth culture in Montreal.
A lawyer representing some of the partiers involved is negotiating with investigators, Montreal police said.
"No one compelled them to take photos of themselves drinking and peeing."
In another case of social media consequences in Montreal, a woman was arrested earlier this month after she posted a photo on Instagram of graffiti she spotted on a city wall that depicted a high-ranking Montreal police officer with a bullet hole in his head.
A Montreal police spokesperson said there's more behind her arrest than just the posting of the photo, but declined to offer further details.
"You can't just show a snippet that makes it seem worse than it is," said Rozelle, the Stetson University law professor.
Either way, Rozelle says, criminals' trumpeting their crimes is nothing new.