The chilling revelations open up a potentially dangerous new phase of the struggle against global terrorism because thousands of European fighters are estimated to be fighting with ISIS and other extremist groups -- a rich pool of radicals who could overwhelm Western intelligence agencies should they come home with orders to sow terrorist panic at home.
Since many Western jihadists have European Union passports, they enjoy visa-free access to the United States, opening the possibility that someone -- not known to U.S. and allied intelligence services and who is not on American no-fly lists like the Kouachi brothers -- could get into the United States.
The paramilitary-style assault on the satirical French publication Charlie Hebdo killed 12 people also underscored a shift away from spectacular, large-scale attacks waged by foreign terror groups like the strike on Sept. 11, 2001.
The plague of homegrown terror by radicals inspired by -- and sometimes affiliated with -- al Qaeda, ISIS and other groups, seems to be spreading across the globe.
Republican Rep. Michael McCaul of Texas, chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee, said the sheer simplicity of the attack in Paris, in which masked gunmen drove up to the Charlie Hebdo offices and started spraying automatic weapons was particularly disturbing.
They can instead call on willing recruits already in the midst of Western societies, inspired by increasingly targeted calls by groups like ISIS and al Qaeda to wage war at home.
Senior U.S. intelligence and law enforcement officials working closely with French counterparts will be especially keen to find out whether those behind the Paris attacks are veterans of ISIS' fight in Syria.
It emerged recently in Australia that the group's leaders had told potential fighters not to travel to Syria, but to stage attacks at home.
Thomas Sanderson, an expert on international terrorism at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, said the risk to the United States from European fighters believed to have returned home after fighting in Syria and elsewhere was significant.
Sanderson also said videos of the assailants on the streets of Paris during the attack suggested they had some level of sophistication, a factor that will also alarm U.S.
Adnan Kifayat, a former State Department envoy to Muslim communities, said the Paris attack was particularly serious because it suggested radical Islamic groups were now succeeding in their campaign to use propaganda and social media to radicalize Muslims to stay in their home nations to conduct terrorism.
The White House said Wednesday that it is paying attention to the risk posed by foreign fighters and the inspiration radicals could find from jihadist groups abroad.
Benjamin cautioned that it remained unclear whether the attackers in the Paris incident were linked or inspired by ISIS or another radical terror group like one of the various branches of al Qaeda.
"We have seen, just in the last few months, whether it is in Sydney or in Ottawa or in other places, that the perceived successes of ISIS in holding territory in Iraq and in Syria have had a galvanizing effect on those with radical tendencies," he said.