One taster's verdict on this Frankenmeat?
"I would have never thought it wasn't real meat."
Forgacs is co-founder and CEO of Modern Meadow, a young company that is developing lab-engineered meat and leather products, known as cultured meat.
For those reasons, these biotech food entrepreneurs may face an uphill climb.
"Cultured meat is so new and such a radically different way of making meat to what has gone before," said Neil Stephens, a research scientist at the University of Cardiff in Wales who has been studying lab-engineered food products.
They also say that cultured meat is more humane because no animals are slaughtered.
Using a formula developed at the University of Missouri, Beyond Meat takes plant protein from soy and peas and applies heating, cooling and pressure to realign it so that its structure resembles meat tissue.
The company's fake chicken strips are in 4,000 stores across the United States and have fooled people in blind taste tests.
"There's such a wide-open space for innovations if you're starting (a company) around food," said Hampton Creek Foods CEO Josh Tetrick.
To make cultured beef, Modern Meadow takes muscle cells from a steer and places them in a liquid or gel containing amino acids, vitamins, minerals and sugars -- ingredients that cells feed on -- to stimulate tissue growth.
That's still a lot cheaper than the world's first lab-grown burger, which was engineered by a scientist in the Netherlands and served to food critics at a news conference last August in London.
But they are coming, entrepreneurs say.
And if cultured meat doesn't taste good, nobody will try it more than once.
We've been eating meat for 2 million years," said Ethan Brown, CEO of Beyond Meat.
Not surprisingly, the U.S. beef industry is not excited by the prospect of lab-grown meat.
"If you ask the biologists working on it ... many of them will tell you it will be meat when the material composition of the cultured meat is sufficiently similar to traditional meat," he said.