The acting head of the Internal Revenue Service said Thursday that evidence so far shows only conservative groups underwent extra scrutiny cited by an inspector general's disclosure of the agency's targeting of applications for tax exempt status.
Werfel repeatedly cautioned that his internal review was incomplete, and that additional information from continuing investigations by the FBI, the inspector general and congressional committees was needed to reach definitive conclusions.
"I didn't want to leave the committee with the impression that we're not seeing diversity of political labels across the spectrum," Werfel said of the IRS targeting.
"If there is anything this report shows, it's just how much more work must be done," Camp said, noting that Werfel had yet to interview principal figures or get other information necessary to determine the origins or scope of the targeting.
Werfel noted that the FBI and inspector general were handling interview of IRS officials involved in the targeting, adding that the investigations could involve criminal behavior.
Republican leaders contend the targeting uncovered by the inspector general's audit indicated political villainy by the Obama administration to try to stifle opponents, such as groups with "tea party" in their names that were flagged for additional IRS scrutiny.
In his first substantive report on the agency, Werfel said Monday that its tax-exempt unit used multiple lists of inappropriate criteria in assessing tax-exempt applications until earlier this month, more than a year later than previously revealed.
As part of his review, Werfel said 80 groups awaiting IRS action on their applications for tax-exempt status for more than 120 days could self-register with the agency as long as they certified under penalty of perjury that they would comply with applicable laws and regulations.
Confusion over defining what constitutes political activity versus social welfare activity contributed to the targeting by the IRS, Werfel said.
Werfel said the IRS would continue checking on tax-exempt groups to ensure they were following the law.