Houston is born in Newark to gospel singer Cissy Houston.
"Whitney's mother and cousins nurtured her passion for gospel music since birth," according to a biography on Houston's website.
Houston's debut album, "Whitney Houston" is released.
1, according to Houston's website.
Houston marries R&B singer Bobby Brown.
The film's soundtrack, featuring Houston's smash hit -- a remake of the Dolly Parton single "I Will Always Love You" -- went 17-times platinum, making it the biggest-selling motion picture soundtrack album in history.
The soundtrack to "The Preacher's Wife" becomes the biggest-selling gospel album in history, according to Houston's website.
Album sales drop off, and her voice begins to show signs of wear.
Filming begins on the short-lived reality show "Being Bobby Brown," featuring Brown and Houston, which aired in 2005.
Houston told Oprah Winfrey in a 2009 interview that her mother arrived on her doorstep with sheriff's officers and a court order for drug intervention.
You do it my way or we're not going to do this at all,'" Houston recalled in the interview.
Houston and Brown separate.
Houston is seen ordering and consuming considerable quantities of alcohol at the Beverly Hilton hotel before 10 a.m., according to a source briefed on her behavior and activity in the days before her death.
Houston is seen jumping in and out of the pool and doing somersaults in the pool area, the source said.
(Price said Monday that Houston was not behaving erratically and "I didn't see someone who was high" although she said Houston did drink champagne.
3:43 p.m.
The Los Angeles County coroner's office has said a cause of death is undetermined pending the results of toxicology tests.
The anti-anxiety medication Xanax was among prescription drugs found in the room, a source close to the death investigation says.
No Valium or other drugs classified as benzodiazepines, or sedatives, were found in the room, according to the source.
Family, friends and fellow stars remember Houston's voice, love and -- most of all -- faith at her homegoing service at the New Jersey church in which she grew up.
CNN's Don Lemon and Alan Duke contributed to this report.