Northern Syria (CNN) -- Tanks pounded the Syrian city of Aleppo on Saturday, a sign that a much-feared government offensive in the country's largest city has started, as the opposition warned its allies they would bear responsibility for a "massacre" if they don't act soon.
This regime is planning for a big massacre in Aleppo," Abdulbaset Sieda, head of the Syrian National Council, told reporters in Abu Dhabi.
At least 160 people were killed across Syria on Saturday, the LCC said.
Fighters have been preparing for a major confrontation, and security forces continued military buildup with reinforcements from Raqqa province and other regions, opposition groups said.
She said the regime is shelling displaced people from Homs and Idlib who've taken refuge in Aleppo, and thousands of them have had to evacuate yet again.
"I believe that the escalation of the military build-up in Aleppo and the surrounding area is further evidence of the need for the international community to come together to persuade the parties that only a political transition, leading to a political settlement will resolve this crisis and bring peace to the Syrian people," he said in a statement.
Russia and China -- major trade allies with Syria -- have vetoed tough resolutions on Syria at the U.N. Security Council.
One Free Syrian Army commander said the regime has labeled the confrontation for the city as the "mother of all battles."
Regime forces are preventing fuel and food from entering Aleppo neighborhoods controlled by rebel fighters, opposition activists said.
But in areas under the control of the Free Syrian Army, the FSA opened the bakeries and were able to employ people to bake bread then distribute it.
The LCC said dozens of people were killed across Damascus and its suburbs, and others died in Idlib, Deir Ezzor and Hama provinces.
"In a response to the constant pleas of the residents in the area, a unit from our armed forces started to cleanse Karnaz town in Hama from the armed terrorist gangs," Syrian state TV reported.
While Sunnis have a significant presence in the Syrian regime, they are also dominant in the opposition movement.
A.K.
Russia has been a longtime arms supplier to Syria, but it has said it will not deliver new weapons to Syria as long as the situation there is unstable.
He confirmed the move on Al-Jazeera TV on Saturday.