The January 22, 1973, Supreme Court decision legalizing abortion remains the law of the land, passions remain high on both sides of the issue, and protests are held each year on its anniversary.
Public opinion on abortion has remained stable over the years.
The Roe decision did not prompt "abortion on demand," as many opponents of the procedure had predicted it would.
Research from the Alan Guttmacher Institute finds the number of abortions at its lowest level since Roe, remaining steady at about 1.2 million reported procedures in the year 2011, down 25-percent since the all-time high in 1990.
Since then, movements have come and gone to relax the restrictions or to give women more choice, but such efforts mostly went nowhere.
The legal fights culminated with Roe v. Wade, the court's 7-2 decision giving women a qualified constitutional right to abortion during most of the pregnancy.
"Prior to Roe," said Garrow, "whether one could obtain a legal abortion in the face of an unwanted pregnancy was a crapshoot.
But the ruling was a qualified one, and that fact has been used by abortion opponents in their efforts to narrow the scope of other abortion provisions.
That "qualified right" found its form in the controversial "trimester analysis" laid out by the justices in Roe: permitting no government regulation during the first three months of a pregnancy; allowing limited regulation in the second trimester to protect the woman's health and safety; and granting government the power to ban abortions during the third trimester -- a time when, medical consensus has concluded, the fetus is capable of living on its own.
More important, the three conservative justices said, a compelling government interest need not be required to justify restrictions on abortion.
The decision (also 5-4) reaffirmed the heart of Roe while giving states the power to regulate procedures so long as they did not impose an "undue burden" on a woman's right to abortion.
Another legacy of Roe: The head-counting of justices on the court, a what-if scenario that could lead to the overturning of Roe.
In the meantime, conservatives in Congress have promised to push for tougher restrictions on access to abortion, though many political experts say the goal is not necessarily aimed at overturning Roe.
The legal sticking point was that the law lacked a "health exception" for women who might suffer serious medical complications, something the justices have said in the past is necessary when considering abortion restrictions.
The law on abortion was evolving at the time of Roe, Ginsburg recalled in 2005.
But Ginsburg, in her rulings, has upheld a woman's reproductive choice.
As significant as it was, Roe v. Wade was only the beginning of the battle.