"I think that the first part of his speech was excellent, and he laid out the reasons why it was important to intervene and what would have happened in Benghazi.
...
... (But) if we tell Gadhafi, 'Don't worry, you're not going to be removed by force,' I think that's very encouraging for Gadhafi."
But at the heart of what Obama is saying is that there are places in the world where the United States does not have vital national interests, where we have not been attacked, but we have limited interests and we're going to try to find a way to have some kind of limited military response."
"What John McCain was suggesting (in the reaction above) frankly strikes me as a very dangerous argument -- that in a place where we have clearly limited interests, clearly nonvital interests, the United States and the president should (have) an open-ended policy of military escalation and say we will do whatever it takes to get Moammar Gadhafi out of office.
"I thought he did a good job talking about the signal we would send, that we are a values-based people, and stranding by these young people in Libya will serve us well in the future.
"I think it is a great speech.
The president was very clear and very determined, and defended his position in a nice way, and I think he convinced the American people."
"The president's speech tonight has made things even murkier than they were before.
The president says our mission is to protect the people of Libya.
It says limited action; we're not going to go any further than just protecting the people of Libya; we're not going to be for regime change.
P.J.
The issue is not with the policy.
"I felt the president was very presidential tonight.
"I was very satisfied with his speech tonight.
Look, they're probably not perfect revolutionary characters, but they're sure as heck a lot better than Gadhafi staying.
...
And I think he answered the great questions about this intervention.
"I think (Obama) ... made clear that we went in to avoid what he described as violence on a horrific scale in Benghazi; that the mandate of the U.N. coalition ... is to protect Libyan civilians.
At the same time, he made very clear that in his U.S. policy -- and the policy of many of our allies -- that Libya needs to have a new government that responds to the demands of the Libyan people, and that we will pursue every diplomatic and economic means to that end.
And furthermore, I think he made a compelling case that these early U.S. actions really have accomplished what the United States promised to do, and that was to stop Gadhafi from killing other people.
I don't think anybody knows that.
What do we do then?
On the most important issue that he had to face tonight -- why he went in -- I thought he made a very, very strong case."
"The tricky think here is, when you have a president who does the right thing, but who does it four weeks too late, can you really say it is the right thing?