Three days later, doctors at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston said a brain biopsy revealed a tumor, known as a malignant glioma, in the left parietal lobe.
Junck was not involved in the senator's treatment.
But the majority are glioblastomas, especially in older patients, said Dr. Tara Morrison, a neuro-oncologist at the Fox Chase Cancer Center in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
(Morrison also was not involved in Kennedy's treatment.)
The goal of this kind of surgery is to remove as much tumor as possible, Morrison said.
The theory behind proton therapy is that its high-energy particles zone in specifically on the tumor and so do not harm the surrounding healthy tissue as much as the X-ray photons in conventional therapy, said Dr. Donald O'Rourke, associate professor of neurosurgery at the University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine.
Treating malignant gliomas is especially hard because they grow in essential parts of the brain, so it's difficult to get every harmful cell out with surgery, Morrison said.
Researchers are looking at many other treatments for brain tumors.
Friedman said the evidence for Avastin's benefit against recurrent tumors is so compelling that he's taken a "leap of faith" and includes the drug in the regimen for newly diagnosed glioblastoma patients whenever possible, even when they don't qualify for clinical trials.
Researchers take a portion of the tumor and grind it up with white blood cells from the patient, in hopes that the blood cells will learn to fight the cancer cells, Junck said.
They have measured blood flow to the brain with magnetic resonance imaging, or MRI.
Already the researchers can use the MRI method to see if the patient is responding to treatment, and can make treatment selection based on it.
Researchers at Argonne National Laboratory are going to test this approach in brain tumors in mice, but it will be at least five years before it could become available in humans.
"I think in the next 10 years, we're going to see a situation in which we can really classify glioblastomas... and select the appropriate treatments accordingly," he said.