(CNN)Kayla Mueller made helping people her life's work.
The Mueller family confirmed her death on Tuesday and said ISIS took her captive in August 2013.
Before going to Northern Arizona University, she worked for the Save Darfur Coalition, wrote letters to members of Congress, took part in environmental causes and was honored with a local award for activism, the article said.
Mueller continued her activism at Northern Arizona University.
Upon returning to Arizona in 2011, Mueller volunteered in a women's shelter and worked at Northland Cares, an HIV/AIDS clinic, helping to facilitate events and providing local coordination for World AIDS Day, the family spokeswoman said.
After a year in France, she traveled to the Turkish/Syrian border to work with the Danish Refugee Council and the humanitarian organization Support to Life, which assisted families forced to flee their homes, the spokeswoman said.
On a trip home in 2013, she told the Kiwanis Club in Prescott about her work in the Mideast, saying she often drew, painted and played with Syrian children in refugee camps, according to The Daily Courier.
In a YouTube video produced in October 2011, before the rise of ISIS, Mueller said she supported a sit-in that protested the Syrian regime.
ISIS took Mueller captive in the summer of 2013 after she visited a Spanish MSF (Doctors Without Borders) hospital, according to the family spokeswoman.
"Upon completion of the repair work on August 4, the MSF team organized transportation for Kayla and the technician to the Aleppo bus station, from where they were to depart for Turkey.
The family hasn't said whether they know how she was treated.
In a note to Mueller's family last summer, ISIS said it had grown tired of waiting and demanded 5 million Euros by August 13, according to a source close to the family.
"We can honor Kayla most by asking all the parties involved to seek understanding of difference, of those with whom we most disagree," Thompson said.
CNN's Barbara Starr, Allison Brennan and Nic Robertson contributed to this report.