And the recent questions about Hillary Clinton's age and health is anything but.
Republicans think that young voters -- particularly Americans who were in diapers or listening to N*SYNC during the eight years that Hillary Clinton lived in the White House -- could use a refresher course on all things Clinton.
Details about the Clinton White House years is not old news for people who were in "grade school" at the time, she said.
And it hinges on the assumption that young voters will be receptive to Republican views of Clinton, who is liked by nearly two thirds of those between 18-29 sampled in a recent Quinnipiac University Poll.
Clinton is also one of the most recognizable people in America.
"I think that is going to be a big issue in framing the debate and framing who Hillary is to those voters," Kukowski said.
Other blogs and right-leaning outlets have sent reporters to Democratic National Committee meetings and college campuses to ask questions about Clinton's record and history of political positions.
Top Republican strategists, like Karl Rove, have shown how Republican might try to bring up Clinton's age and health in a campaign.
Although Democrats have called Rove "sleazy," the stepped up attacks have already had an impact on the early 2016 presidential wrangling by solidifying what Republicans have been saying for months: Hillary Clinton is who they see as the most formidable potential candidate.
In the past two weeks, she has dipped her toes into domestic politics, including her first congressional fundraiser of the midterms -- for a candidate who eventually lost, and has started to regularly tout her husband's record in the White House.
Tim Miller, executive director of the anti-Clinton America Rising PAC, said comments like that are an acknowledgment that she knows their time in the White House from 1993-2001 will be an issue if she runs.
Miller, whose super PAC has a cadre of researchers diving into the Clinton record, said there will be an obvious focus on what younger voters need to know about her time in the White House.
President Barack Obama's campaign famously began to define Republican challenger Mitt Romney as out-of-touch early in the race.
Republicans say that is only because of the unprecedented shadow campaign around Clinton right now.
(Republicans aren't) going to allow Hillary Clinton to be anointed without taking the heat."