(CNN) -- And now the saga of the Chilean miners -- at least a part of it -- may be about to make a detour to Graceland.
So it is that Pena, when he feels up to it, may be embarking on a journey to Memphis, Tennessee, to set foot in the house where Presley lived.
I can tell Mr. Pena that if he thought he needed sunglasses to protect his eyes from the light near the mine opening after those months in the dimness, he might do well to bring them along to Graceland with him, too.
He outfitted the room with chairs bearing the carved likenesses of animal faces; he had green shag carpeting nailed to the ceiling; he ordered a constantly dripping waterfall to be constructed on one wall -- in many ways the Jungle Room is the soul of Graceland.
On visits over the years, I've jotted notations about Elvis' record collection (even Elvis had to listen to someone other than Elvis -- he had Dean Martin albums, a Peter, Paul and Mary LP, a copy of the once wildly popular "First Family" comedy album, featuring satires of the Kennedy family by impressionist Vaughn Meader); about his gas station credit card (from the Shell Oil Co., issued to "Mr. Elvis Presley," his name typed onto stiff white paper in those pre-plastic credit card days); about the only portrait Presley ever commissioned of himself (by artist Ralph Wolfe Cowan, showing Elvis dressed all in white, standing in clouds against a gold sky background.
Presley's friend George Klein (they went to Humes High School in Memphis together) once told me that in the years before Elvis' life turned dark and unhappy, the two of them would arrive giddily back at the mansion after a Saturday night on the town: "Often Elvis and I would be driving through the gates of Graceland, and he would say, 'God, George, do you believe this is real?
"
Springsteen said he had gone to the gates of Graceland, just to look.
The guard had said that Presley was out of town, and had escorted Springsteen back to the street.
It was so hard to understand how somebody whose music came in and took away so many people's loneliness, and gave so many people a reason and a sense of the possibilities of living, could have, in the end, died so tragically.
And if Pena does make it to Graceland, I hope there will be echoes, not just for him but for all 33, of something else that Bruce Springsteen said on that long-ago stage.