The Heinz family makes a net income of $58,000 a year -- but they have $70,000 in savings.
Sue has found a way to snip $550 from their yearly budget by cutting the family's hair herself.
"We wanted to own a home, we wanted to have a big family -- and we knew we had to set our priorities to make that work."
Although they've had to cut back in certain areas, Sue says their thrifty ways haven't curbed their lifestyle one bit.
"It's an alternative to living beyond our means, really," Brett says.
"Times in the construction industry have been really tough, and four months ago I lost my job as a recruiter and as a trainer," Vicky says.
Can thrifty couple Sue and Brett help Vicky and Mark find ways to cut back?
All in all, the family is spending $8,744 a month, which is more than they are bringing in.
To get Vicky and Mark on track, Sue says they need to bring their monthly budget down to less than $8,000 per month.
"I love the idea of having a debit card and paying as you go," Mark says.
By searching online, Sue says you can find restaurants that let kids eat for free on certain nights of the week.
In all, Sue and Brett helped Vicky and Mark find an extra $2,000 a month.
"It was a lot less stress at the end of the month," he says.
"It's actually easier than ever to use grocery coupons today because we can use the Internet to print coupons," she says.
"In about half an hour a week, you can make a real difference in cutting your grocery bill in half."
Oprah.com: Five ways to save money on your groceries
She sold tickets for $100 apiece and agreed that any extra money raised beyond the appraised value would go to charity.
After two and a half years on the market, Mike and Pam from Streamwood, Illinois, needed an unconventional way to sell their home.
Mike and Pam found Lauren and Ryan, homeowners in Elgin, Illinois, who wanted to upgrade their home.
"We were able to sell our house at the price we wanted, and they were able to sell their townhouse at the price they wanted," Pam says.
If you're interested in finding a creative way to sell your home, make sure to check out the laws in your state first.