Any legal issues about Bergdahl, who's been accused of desertion, will be addressed once he has returned to U.S. soil.
A senior U.S. defense official said this week that Bergdahl has not been classified a deserter and is still scheduled to be promoted to the rank of staff sergeant later this month.
He noted that the Army promoted Bergdahl in rank during his captivity.
Former soldiers involved in the operations to find Bergdahl asserted to CNN this week that at least six soldiers were killed in the search for Bergdahl in 2009.
Pentagon and Army officials have looked at the claims, and "right now there is no evidence to back that up," a U.S. official told CNN on Thursday.
Evan Buetow, told CNN, "I can't say for a fact and I don't know if there is really anyone who can prove that soldiers died on a directed mission to find Bergdahl.
An Army fact-finding investigation conducted in the months after his disappearance concluded that Bergdahl left his outpost deliberately and of his own free will, according to a U.S. military official briefed on the report.
The review "will include speaking with Sergeant Bergdahl to better learn from him the circumstances regarding his disappearance and captivity," McHugh said.
"I believe he totally deserted," said former Staff Sgt.
Under law, the White House has to give a 30-day notice to Capitol Hill before any terrorists are transferred from Guantanamo.
But there are questions about the law itself, he added.
"This is just a notice requirement.
Bergdahl's former comrades also wondered if he gave the Taliban intelligence because the enemy executed "very calculated, very methodical" strikes after Bergdahl's disappearance, said Buetow.
But a U.S. official who has been briefed on the initial Army fact-finding investigation conducted in the months after Bergdahl disappeared told CNN that Bergdahl's commanders referred to him as "a good soldier" in that report.
Some experts speculate Bergdahl may have experienced Stockholm syndrome, in which he may have emotionally bonded with his Taliban captors over the five years.
"He walked off," said former Pfc.
Jose Baggett, 27, of Chicago.
The former servicemen said they earlier signed nondisclosure agreements about the disappearance and search for Bergdahl, but they're now violating it.
"It's certainly a possibility, but I don't think that I could have continued to go on without being able to share with you and the people the true things that happened in this situation, because if you guys aren't made aware of it, it will just go on, he will be a hero, and nobody is going to be able to know the truth," said former Army Sgt.
America needs to know," said Gerleve, the former squad leader.
Depends on who you ask