CARL AZUZ, CNN STUDENT NEWS ANCHOR: Now that is how you get a show poppin'!
AZUZ: The first Friday of every month, the U.S. government usually announces the current unemployment rate.
More than 15 million Americans looking for work, not good news.
AZUZ: President Obama is back in Washington after a trip to Afghanistan.
DAN LOTHIAN, CNN WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: It was a secret trip the White House says was in the works for more than a month; flying into Bagram Air Base for a little more than four hours to salute the men and women who are carrying out the administration's stepped-up strategy in Afghanistan.
BARACK OBAMA, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: This part of the world is the center of a global effort where we are going to disrupt and dismantle and defeat al Qaeda and its extremist allies, and that's why you're here.
I'm tired of playing defense.
OBAMA: There are going to be difficult days ahead.
LOTHIAN: Thirteen hundred U.S. troops have been killed in Afghanistan since the war began.
As for whether or not those WikiLeaks documents could cause more problems for the Obama administration, one top aide says that they've weathered these kinds of revelations in the past and that there's no secret about the challenges they're facing in Afghanistan, especially when it comes to corruption in the government there.
If they do, it means Americans' taxes will go up.
Saturday, the U.S. Senate voted not to extend the cuts for anyone, but Democratic and Republican leaders are hopeful they they can still work out a compromise.
AZUZ: A new deal between the U.S. and South Korea would get rid of a lot of tariffs.
The president says this agreement will mean billions of dollars in American exports and support 70,000 American jobs.
The president had hoped to finalize the deal with South Korea when he was in that country last month.
It's a little smaller than the U.S. state of Maryland, and it's home to about 3 million people.
The prime minister, Binyamin Netanyahu, says he wants the people who were affected to be able to go back to their homes or to alternative housing within days.
Israel is getting help from other countries, including the U.S., Egypt and Jordan.
NICHOLI WYTOVICZ, SHORECREST HIGH SCHOOL STUDENT: I Facebook after I get home from school, and then I do my homework, and then I Facebook some more.
But for one week, there's a school district in Washington state that's going unplugged as part of a social experiment.
And this is what we mean by unplugged: More than 400 students, teachers and staff have promised to give up texting, Twitter, Facebook and cell phones!
But about Friday's blog on a high school football player who got flagged after praying in the end zone, Rebecca says she would not stop pointing to the sky after scoring.
Salicia, like several of you, talked about the First Amendment and said "the player had every right to say a prayer."
As a football player myself, they should get rid of that rule altogether."
AZUZ: All right, today's Before We Go segment is about someone who's just a giant baby.
Just wait 'til he's full-grown and weighs 200 pounds!
AZUZ: You know, all the bear essentials.
For CNN Student News, I'm Carl Azuz.