Itta's garden, the Arctic Ocean, is filled with the whales, seals, walruses and fish the Inupiat Eskimos still need to survive.
Itta's lynchpin decision on whether to fight Shell Alaska's efforts to begin exploratory drilling in the Arctic was among the most difficult of his 67 years.
"If Shell really hits it big this summer, I think things will heat up even more," Reiss told CNN.
Shortly before Itta left office after serving a maximum term, he reached a compromise with Shell that opened the door for drilling to begin later this year.
"
"We are the Arctic, because we are the land, we are the ocean we are one and the same," says Itta.
It's going to ruin our ocean," said 79-year-old Abagail Nashupuq of Point Hope, Alaska.
"We will be drilling these wells like they are the most complex, most difficult wells that we have drilled in company history," says Pete Slaiby, the vice president of Shell Alaska.
The Arctic's shallow waters will make a Gulf of Mexico scenario less likely, supporters say, because getting to the well will be easier and pressure conditions underwater at the drill site will be more favorable.
The delay cuts valuable time for Shell, which is operating under U.S. permits that require the company to stop drilling in the seas by the end of October.
Opponents also fear that floating ice will make any spill in the region a potential disaster.
If Shell finds the oil it's looking for, scientists say melting ice in the Arctic Circle will make conditions friendlier to floating drilling rigs.
If production dips from the region's Prudhoe Bay wells and pipeline, "our tax revenues go way, way, way down," Itta admits.
Under the agreement negotiated by Itta, the borough agreed not to sue Shell if the company maintains constant scientific research and halts drilling when whales are in the region.
"So that's the point where I said, 'OK, it's a compromise.'
"I think I can rest easy that I have done the very best I could to bring our issues as Inupiat Eskimos to the forefront, in a way the oil industry understands -- the permitting agencies understand," Itta said.
For the latest from Erin Burnett click here.