And Detroit, Michigan, artist Jon Brumit and his wife, Sarah, are living it.
"It's not that we have a little money," Jon Brumit said, laughing.
Detroit already had the lowest market value houses in Michigan before the latest rounds of job losses at GM and other huge employers, market analysts say.
Here was a chance for Cope and Reichert, who run a popular Detroit art store, to rehabilitate the 1920s brick house into a bastion of energy savings, with solar panels, LED lights, recycled wood and high-end insulated windows.
Cope and Reichert wanted to create a central place to power homes nearby and, in turn, revive a neighborhood's sense of community.
"We told everyone that Detroit is an interesting city to work in as an artist, and the neighborhood is diverse.
A few weeks later, Cope e-mailed Brumit a photo of an abandoned home on his block.
Brumit called a real estate agent with the Department of Housing and Urban Development, who confirmed that bids on the foreclosed property started at $95 for the property, $5 for the house.
Cope, also a designer and builder, and an inspector did a walk-through.
"I saw it as a project," the artist said.
Skateboards are one thing.
She and other housing officials CNN spoke with said Michigan's economy has some extremely frustrating woes.
A report from the nonprofit think tank Brookings Institution said Detroit had the lowest performing economy out of 100 U.S. cities it analyzed -- scoring the worst in unemployment and average wages, the highest foreclosure rates and the lowest market value homes.
The Smiths bought their 660-square-foot home for $549.99 from Cope and Reichert, who originally purchased the foreclosed home for $500.
"You have to get over that fear that the house had that history, that you're going to be a victim of a crime or something," she said.
A bathtub from Habitat for Humanity cost them $100.
And Zeb Smith, who works at the Museum of Contemporary Art Detroit, brings home wood the museum would otherwise toss when installations close.