(AOL Autos) -- A directive recently handed down by a Detroit-area suburban mayor has ignited the latest round of a seemingly endless debate -- one that always burns with more intensity in the home of the Big Three than anywhere else.
But the Detroit area has been hit hard in the last five years by the ongoing, sometimes enormous financial losses posted by the Big Three.
This latest round of the discussion was inspired by a decision made by Jim Fouts, the mayor of Warren, Michigan, a large Detroit suburb and Michigan's third-largest city, and where a good portion of the residents are (or were) autoworkers.
In mid-August, Fouts told his department heads, which amount to 40 or 50 of the city's more than 700 employees that he "expects" the next car they buy will be an American model.
"But I strongly suggested that the next car they buy should be an American one, and that I had an equally strong expectation that they will do so," Fouts said.
Fouts said he did not know how many of his department heads currently drive imports, although one of his appointees, Warren Police Commissioner Bill Dwyer, guessed that about 90 percent of the appointees already drive American-made cars.
AOL Autos: Safest cars
One is Tracy Balazy of Dearborn, Michigan - the Detroit suburb that is home to the Ford Motor Company's world headquarters.
"And other than brakes and the usual things, I've had no problems with it, and it now has 101,000 miles on it."
"I've passed up many good deals, and have abstained from buying a lot of consumer goods I've wanted over the past year, just to avoid buying foreign-made products."
"But I'm not even sure what it means to 'Buy American' anymore," says Reibel.
"Ford has a huge stake in Mazda, and Japanese automakers build most of their cars for the American market right here in the U.S., with American labor.
For the last couple of years, Galusky has actually maintained two residences: one in Dearborn and one in Sutton's Bay, in Northern Michigan - a five-hour drive.
"I believe what the mayor of Warren is doing is okay," says Sutter.