(InStyle.com) -- Ready to ditch your sun-bleached summer tresses for something crisp and clean?
WHO SHOULD TRY IT "Minus the bangs, this would be a great short cut for someone with curly hair," said hairstylist Mark Townsend.
"Because the hair covers the ears, the cut looks feminine," says Townsend.
WHO SHOULD TRY IT Townsend loves this look for anyone with straight or wavy hair.
"The little details in this cut will really be accentuated if you have fine, baby soft hair," says Townsend.
WHO SHOULD TRY IT "This a a great look for someone with thick hair," Townsend says.
WHO SHOULD TRY IT The long bangs would be great for downplaying a large forehead; the loose layers work for nearly any texture of hair.
WHO SHOULD TRY IT "I can't think of one woman who wouldn't look good in this cut," says Townsend.
This is not the '90s Jennifer Aniston look," says Townsend.
WHO SHOULD TRY IT "I love this for anyone with tons of fine hair -- the kind of woman with a ponytail that's two-inches thick," Townsend says.
If you can commit to the styling, it's ultimately a very low effort cut," says Townsend.
Who says you have to stop at the cut -- take your new look even further with one of these fabulous fall colors.
KEY COLOR NOTES "This is just such a bright sexy blond," says colorist Denis De Souza, who works with celebrities like Mila Kunis, Olivia Wilde and Rachel Bilson.
KEY COLOR NOTES What makes this blond so unique is the layers of dimensional color: A base of toffee blond is accented with ribbons of caramel and straw.
SJP's style exhibits no such precision -- and that's exactly why we love it.
KEY COLOR NOTES If you've got a light chestnut base like Menounos, a scattering of sunny highlights can enliven your look.
KEY COLOR NOTES "Olivia hadn't colored her hair in seven or eight years when she came to me," De Souza confesses.
KEY COLOR NOTES Usually words like streaky, chunky and patchy aren't necessarily phrases we'd like associated with our highlights.
KEY COLOR NOTES Does Kunis's color look too shiny and natural to be manufactured?
KEY COLOR NOTES Freida Pinto's hair is so unique because it's nearly a true black, without a glint of auburn or purple in the light.
Ask your colorist for the deepest shade of brunet, not black, which is too severe and heavy metal for the look you're after.
Dyed black hair can look rough and flat without the extra love.