Hong Kong (CNN) -- Pro-democracy activists took their fight Thursday to the doorstep of Hong Kong's chief executive, sitting down outside his office gates to express their dissatisfaction with him and the central government in Beijing.
But tensions have risen after a late August decision giving Beijing control over the slate of Hong Kong chief executive candidates in 2017.
Huge crowds have called for true "universal suffrage" -- which is not just one vote per person, but no restrictions on candidates -- and more generally called out Beijing for what they claim is its encroaching control on Hong Kong.
The activists are open to talks with Chinese or other Hong Kong leaders, but not with Leung, one of the movement's figureheads, Lester Shum, said Wednesday.
"More pressure must be put on the government," Cheung said.
Suraj Katra, a CNN iReporter who works for a non-profit in the city, said late Wednesday that demonstrators "seemed exhausted" but still high-spirited, whether they were singing songs or applauding speeches.
Aside from that day, things have been relatively calm and peaceful and, outwardly, it seems like leaders on both sides want to keep it that way.
"Hong Kong has a long history of managing large protests reasonably well," Richardson said.
Hui Chun-tak, the chief superintendent of the police public relations branch, said at a joint police and emergency services news conference that although the protests remained calm, police would continue to monitor them to ensure public order and safety.
"We have to keep it peaceful," she said.
But that doesn't mean they can't make a point.
Despite the huge turnout on the streets, not everyone in Hong Kong is behind the protest movement.
"The longer it goes on, the longer that these disputes -- that, in some cases, are splitting apart family members and friends -- the worst those relations are going to get," Watson said.
CNN's Euan McKirdy, Wilfred Chan, Richard Roth, Pamela Boykoff and Chieu Luu contributed to this report.