She noticed two 12-year-olds struggling with something in the back seat.
She said she later learned from police that the children were told they had to kill someone that night or someone in their family would suffer violent consequences.
"I wasn't the victim that night, I was the collateral damage," said Fitzpatrick, now 50.
More than two decades later, Fitzpatrick was living in New Orleans when she once again had a brush with street violence.
I didn't want the children to think that this was normal.
"We offer a space out of the path of the bullet, where a young man can put 6 inches of cinder block between him and violence outside," Fitzpatrick said.
"We're empowering our young men and women to ... find out what they might want to do," Fitzpatrick said.
"Statistics say that overwhelmingly, the young men being murdered on the street, they know their murderer," she said.
...
...
Whatever the method, Fitzpatrick knows that every situation that's negotiated peacefully gives young people tools they can use in the future.
"When I ask them why they hang out with (me) every Friday night, they say, 'Because you're the first person who ever let us in the door.'
"Many of the kids ask me, 'Why are you here?'
and I'm honest with them," she said.
When you look at Fitzpatrick -- a 50-year-old white woman -- you might not think she'd have much in common with the mostly African-American males that come to her center.
"I've kind of gone through a similar situation," he said.
Today, Santacruze helps others at APEX, where he sees young people facing the same struggles that he once did.
This peer-to-peer mentoring, and the fact that the majority of the young people that come to APEX are referred by their friends, confirms to Fitzpatrick that she's on the right track.
(It's) when a kid like Kendall can live (here) and make a conscious choice every day to not be involved in the violence, spread the message of nonviolence, and work hard to get other kids to put down the gun.
But Fitzpatrick said she wouldn't have it any other way.
"The kids, they give up everything to be here.
Want to get involved?