cheers, as they walked past John H., who was waiting in line to buy the iPhone 5 in Atlanta last month.
"I didn't have anything better to do," he said of his decision to come to the mall and wait in line to buy the newest Apple smartphone.
One year after the death of Apple co-founder Steve Jobs, that kind of indifference seems almost sacrilege when set against the history of Apple fanboy-dom that surrounds the company's product launches.
Or, more troubling for Apple loyalists, maybe some of the company's sparkle is fading with consumers now that Jobs, the design perfectionist, is no longer signing off on new products.
A shift, however, seemed evident at the launch of the new phone, at least with the random sampling of consumers who spoke with CNN that morning.
For starters, no one would claim Apple as a hero of the counterculture these days.
"The excitement has settled," said Justin Henderson, 32, who has waited in line for the new Apple smartphone every year since the iPhone launched.
This line?
"I think people know what they're getting, and they're just wanting to upgrade, versus getting the phone for the first time" and being super-thrilled about it, he said.
"I'm not saying this iPhone iteration is an awful device, but I question whether Apple has the ability to maintain industry-leading innovation," Choi writes on the site TechnoBuffalo.
Not because Bezos has copied anything Jobs did, but because he has not.
"That seemed plausible, given Jobs' reputation and the incremental nature of the iPhone 4S that came out around the same time, and helped to heighten the anticipation for this week's iPhone 5 launch.
-- definitely a creditable offering that reiterates Apple's design, engineering and marketing chops.
Apple has come under fire for its new error-filled maps application, which replaces Google Maps on iPhone 5s and in iOS 6, the company's new mobile operating system.
It's clear Apple employees (check out this gallery; hilarious) and the company's fanboy and fangirl loyalists will continue not just to buy Apple products but to love them, and the company behind them.
"It is rare that a company is so completely an extension of one man's brain as Apple was an extension of Jobs.
Share your responses in the comments below, or join the conversation on Twitter using #stevejobstaughtme.