School Bus Safety - Consider some of the challenges involving school buses around the U.S.
I'm Carl Azuz, and you're tuned in to CNN Student News!
AZUZ: If no candidate receives more than 50 percent of the vote, then a runoff election will be held.
The only group that can order a runoff: the Independent Election Commission.
But on Sunday, a White House official said it would be "reckless" to deploy more troops without knowing what kind of government Afghanistan's going to have.
ATIA ABAWI, CNN CORRESPONDENT, KABUL: Coalition forces are fighting fierce enemies in Afghanistan, facing daily attacks by different groups with differing ideologies.
Are they groups that we have to engage kinetically?
In the west of the country, the insurgent groups entail more of a criminal element, some with ties to the drug trade.
And many of these groups have cross-border ties with Pakistan.
ABAWI: Professor Stanakzai believes that there are groups and militant fighters that can be reconciled, but many will continue to use Afghanistan as their ideological battlefield.
AZUZ: Are you and your parents considering whether or not to get the H1N1 flu vaccine?
Now, it looks like that number will be closer to 30 million.
AZUZ: And U.S. officials involved in another set of talks taking place in Austria.
Participants talked about how nuclear materials made in Iran would be sent to other countries for further development and then sent back to Iran to be used in medical facilities.
This one's true.
AZUZ: Keith Bardwell, a judge in Louisiana's Tangipahoa Parish, has caused a national controversy after he refused to marry an interracial couple.
AZUZ: Social networking sites let us connect with friends, but they can also potentially connect us with criminals.
Last year, the Internet Crime Complaint Center got more than 72,000 complaints about Internet fraud involving more than $260 million in losses.
About how many U.S. students ride the bus to school every day?
Approximately 24 million students take the bus to school.
We blogged about that awhile back, and some of you argued that it's dangerous to walk to school, or that you couldn't get to school without the bus.
One question during National School Bus Safety week is are they safe?
Only two percent involve school buses.
AZUZ: Beyond that, Robin Leeds of the National School Transportation Association suggests contacting state lawmakers, because many local school districts get budget money from state legislatures.
Send us an iReport giving a shoutout to someone who's served in the Armed Forces, and you might see yourself on our show.
AZUZ: Before we go, it's about time to go pumpkin picking.
The whole point is to plunge the pumpkins off the roof and see just how far the guts of the gourds go when they fall.
we'll see you tomorrow, I'm Carl Azuz.