(CNN) -- The salmonella outbreak that led to the recall of 380 million eggs was preventable and will likely grow, federal officials said Thursday.
The salmonella outbreak prompted Wright County Egg of Galt, Iowa, to increase its recall Wednesday to 380 million eggs.
McGarry said.
The regulations requires "egg producers with fewer than 50,000 but at least 3,000 laying hens whose shell eggs are not processed with a treatment, such as pasteurization, to comply with the regulation by July 9, 2012."
Thoroughly cooking eggs kills salmonella bacteria within, but there is still risk of cross-contamination if a food preparer doesn't properly wash kitchen utensils, such as whisks or spatulas, that came into contact with the raw eggs.
Vomiting, chills, headache and muscle pains also may occur, according to the Mayo Clinic.
Chickens can pass the bacteria to eggs because the eggs leave hens through the same passageway as feces, according to the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Food Safety and Inspection Service.
"Wright County Egg is fully cooperating with FDA's investigation by undertaking this voluntary recall," the company said in a statement.
After the uptick in salmonella infections, the CDC and the FDA traced the source and determined it was most likely eggs from Wright County Egg.
Krista Eberle, director of food safety programs at the Egg Safety Center, reiterated that only shell eggs are affected by the Wright County recall.
Country Eggs, Inc. on Thursday said it is voluntary recalling specific Julian dates of shell eggs produced by Wright County Egg.
In addition, NuCal Foods, which, on its website, calls itself the largest distributor of shell eggs in the western United States, announced Thursday it was "voluntarily recalling specific ... dates of shell eggs produced by Wright County Egg and packaged by NuCal Foods because they have the potential to be contaminated with Salmonella."
Only shell eggs are affected by the recall, the company said.
Eggs have not been a major source of infection in humans for this particular strain of salmonella, enteritidis, in the last twoor three years, said Patrick McDonough at Cornell University's School of Veterinary Medicine.
One Wisconsin woman infected by salmonella has filed a lawsuit against a restaurant that allegedly served contaminated eggs linked to the nationwide outbreak of the potentially deadly bacteria.
Falkenstein said even though Wright County has recalled the eggs, Baker Street Restaurant will remain part of the lawsuit.
The 30 cases of salmonella reported in Kenosha County came from no specific source and not all the people were connected to the restaurant, said Diane Bosovich, assistant director of nursing for the health department.
L & K Tricoli, LLC, which owns the Baker Street Restaurant and Pub and two other Kenosha restaurants, did not respond to repeated CNN requests for comment.