U.N. monitors on the ground in five Syrian cities are making "all possible efforts to stop violence" and have had "some dampening effect," Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon told CNN's Christiane Amanpour.
In an interview on "Amanpour," Ban said the full cadre of observers -- 300 -- authorized by the Security Council last month would be on site in the coming days.
The report by the Independent International Commission of Inquiry on Syria noted the growing power of forces opposed to President Bashar al-Assad.
Opposition groups report a higher death toll in excess of 11,000 people.
The military has conducted "large-scale" strikes on sites known for "hosting defectors and/or armed persons" escorting protests or supporting the Free Syrian Army, the anti-government resistance force, the report said.
"Many such protests were accompanied by armed groups, which have described their role as providing protection for the demonstrators," the report said.
Children have been killed or injured in attacks on protests and by snipers' gunfire, while government forces have targeted schools and used one as a command post.
Anti-government armed groups have executed security forces and suspected collaborators, the report said.
There have been reports of security forces or their supporters confessing under torture after their capture by resistance fighters.
The report pointed to bombing attacks in Damascus, Aleppo and Daraa between March and May, including the suicide car bombings in Damascus on May 10 that left 55 people dead.
Some experts and officials say neither security forces nor anti-government forces may be responsible, suggesting "third" forces -- such as jihadi groups -- may be to blame.
Ban said Thursday the growing tension in Lebanon, where clashes erupted earlier this week after the killing of two anti-Assad clerics, is very troubling.
The government said the elections were all-inclusive, but opposition forces call the process a sham.
The opposition Syrian National Council is looking for a new leader after the resignation of its Paris-based president, Burhan Ghalioun.