Gunmen halted the van ferrying Malala Yousafzai through her native Swat Valley, one of the most conservative regions in Pakistan.
Two suffered non-life-threatening injuries, but bullets struck Malala in the head and neck.
Malala was left in critical condition.
Now, it is nothing short of a miracle that the teen blogger, who fights for the right of girls to get an education, is still alive and even more astounding that she suffered no major brain or nerve damage.
And beyond her hospital room, a world sympathetic with her ordeal has transformed her into a global symbol for the fight to allow girls everywhere access to an education.
Malala wrote in her online diary about intimidation tactics the Taliban used in the Swat Valley in northwest Pakistan to coerce girls into not going school.
"I was scared of being beheaded by the Taliban because of my passion for education," she told CNN last year.
"We will certainly kill her," a spokesman for the Pakistani Taliban said.
The airwaves filled with leaders and commentators who publicly got behind her, and journalists closely followed her story, drawing death threats from the Taliban for their coverage.
The United Nations launched a campaign for girls' education named "I am Malala."
"Pakistan has a new heroine and a new cause -- a girl's right to education," former British Prime Minister Gordon Brown wrote in an opinion piece published by CNN.
Brown, who heads up the "I am Malala" campaign in his role as United Nations special envoy on global education, toured Pakistan to boost education with international funding and local initiatives.
Malala was taken by helicopter from one military hospital in Pakistan to another, where doctors placed her in a medically induced coma, so an air ambulance could fly her to Great Britain for treatment.
More than a week after being shot a world away, Malala got back on her feet again, able to stand when leaning on a nurse's arm at Queen Elizabeth Hospital in Birmingham.
She has returned to her family and continues therapies as an outpatient at the hospital where she will undergo further surgery on her skull.
In an interview with CNN, Khan's sister apologized to Malala for his alleged involvement.
Doctors at Queen Elizabeth hospital will replace the piece of skull extracted in Pakistan.
From her hospital room in the UK, Malala asked early on for her school books, so she could study for exams she wants to take when she arrives back home in Pakistan.
She is all about education.