"It's just insane," the graduate student at Texas A&M University said.
Zelaya was electrified by news that the Obama administration will stop deporting illegal immigrants who entered the United States as children if they meet certain requirements.
"Now, maybe I will be able to work without being afraid that someone may deport me," he said.
"It gives us a chance to show the American people that we're not here to use your tax dollars; we're not here to take your jobs; we're here to contribute," he said.
Under the new directives, those who were brought into the country illegally before the age of 16 and are not criminals, among other requirements, are eligible to receive deferred action for two years, and will be eligible to apply for work authorization.
The Development, Relief and Education for Alien Minors -- or DREAM -- Act, would create a path to citizenship for immigrants who entered the United States illegally as children under the age of 16 and have lived in the United States for at least five years, obtained a high school or General Education Development diploma, and demonstrated "good moral character," the White House said.
"This is a legitimate use of the tools that the administration has to focus on their immigration enforcement resources," she said.
Mehlman said the law also disregards the authority of Congress.
"This is what they need to rally a certain part of their base, but it's going to come at the expense of a lot of other people who say this is bad policy and a usurpation of the authority of the legislative branch of Congress," he said.
he said.
An undocumented immigrant who was brought to the United States by her parents when she was 4, Olivas traveled to Ciudad Juarez, Mexico, last month to beat a deadline to apply for a visa.
In downtown Los Angeles, about 150 young demonstrators -- many of them undocumented immigrants -- rallied in front of the federal immigration office Friday and exalted over the news from Washington.
Protestors then broke up peacefully.
Alex Chavez, 20, a senior at California State University Fresno, drove four hours to downtown Los Angeles early Friday to participate in the "historic moment," he said.
That's what I plan to do for the rest of my life."