(Never have, never will)," the magazine states as part of its "Body Peace Treaty" from its August edition, a copy of which CNN obtained Thursday.
The treaty and accompanying note by editor-in-chief Ann Shoket promise that Seventeen will "celebrate every kind of beauty" and feature "real girls and models who are healthy," while vouching that the magazine always has done just that.
The petition claims that disseminating such altered images to impressionable teens can pose a real danger, helping to spawn a culture that touts unrealistic beauty and contributes to eating disorders, extreme dieting, depression and more.
But not all teenage girls think retouching photographs is a problem.
Alexis Jones of Alpharetta, Georgia, said Thursday she'd worry that, if magazines portrayed young women who were overweight or had acne as being beautiful, some girls may think it's OK to live an unhealthy lifestyle.
In addition to going "more public" in its commitment, Seventeen states in its latest edition it is partnering with the National Eating Disorders Association and the Commission for Positive Images of Women and Girls.
"'Seventeen' listened!"
"Seventeen essentially says that it's never had any issues with the way it's Photoshopped ... celebrities and models but that, just to be on the safe side, it will continue not altering the bodies of the people photographed," said Sauers, a contributor to the female-focused, commentary-driven online magazine Jezebel.com.
"We've gotten used to the idea over the past 10 years or so that every single image we see in a magazine, particularly in women's magazines, is going to be an altered, hyper-real, impossible idealized version of how that person actually looks," she said.
"As much as we would like to think that (media would show) a more diverse array of the American public to young girls, that's simply not going to happen," Britto said, asserting you'll find "pretty much the same type of individual" on covers of magazines such as Seventeen.
"I know that, myself personally and my co-workers at Spark will not change until this capitalization off of young woman's body image stops."
Let us know in the comments below.