The Ebola outbreak "is moving faster than our efforts to control it," Margaret Chan, director-general of the World Health Organization, said in a statement Friday.
This is the first Ebola outbreak in West Africa and involves the most deadly strain in the Ebola virus family, Chan said.
...
So health officials have to stop the infection by isolating patients to prevent further transmission.
This outbreak has made it to several of the region's major cities, including Freetown, Sierra Leone; Monrovia, Liberia; and Conakry, Guinea.
The aircraft was scheduled to fly to Monrovia, Liberia, and will return with either Dr. Kent Brantly or Nancy Writebol, who were infected with Ebola while working for the aid group Samaritan's Purse in Liberia last week.
The two patients will be evacuated in separate trips, according to Samaritan's Purse spokesman Todd Shearer.
"Our role at CDC is to make sure in the transportation and in the care, any risk of infection to others is kept to the absolute minimum," Frieden said.
Trust in the CDC has waned in recent months, after multiple lapses in proper lab procedure put workers -- and potentially the public -- at risk.
Frieden said that in the past, five people have arrived in the United States with other types of hemorrhagic fever; in all five cases, the patients were treated in hospitals, and no secondary infections occurred.
It's a virus easily deactivated with standard cleaning in hospitals."
The patients will be brought to Emory University, which is near CDC's headquarters, hospital officials told Gupta.
Emory University Hospital has a specially built isolation unit that is designed to treat patients exposed to infectious diseases like Ebola, the hospital said in a statement Thursday.
There is no specific treatment for Ebola.
When the infected aid workers return, it will be the first time someone infected with Ebola is known to have crossed into the United States.
Frieden said other aid workers returning to the United States will have their temperature taken every day for 21 days -- the longest period known for Ebola symptoms to appear after infection -- to ensure that they don't have the virus.
Some international staff are infected," Chan said.
"These tragic infections and deaths significantly erode response capacity."