(CNN) -- Jeremiah Pauley remembers all too vividly the moment that shrapnel from a roadside bomb in Iraq tore into his body and left his right arm dangling uselessly.
Pauley had been leading an 18-strong patrol of the United States First Armored Division in the city of Tal Afar when he was hit by the blast.
Private First Class Jody Missildine of Plant City, Florida, just 19 years of age, had died that day, April 8, 2006 and Pauley blamed himself.
"I battled three or four years of just helplessness, anxiety and depression, until I was introduced to the Wounded Warriors Project," Pauley says.
He suffered other life-threatening injuries, and a lacerated liver, spending months in the Walter Read Army Medical Center in Washington where Pauley would be sent two years later.
Like Pauley, his army days were over and with discharge came the same sense of helplessness and loss.
Pauley had also dabbled with the game before his life-changing incident and, like Lara, has found some inner peace while walking the 18 holes of his local courses in northern California.
"We've hit a chord within the golfing community," Hill tells CNN.
Pauley will be playing at Lincoln Hills in California, where he will be pressed into speaking duties before the tournament starts.
Missildine's family invited Pauley to visit and pay his respects, something he had been unable to do in 2006 because he was in hospital recovering from his injuries.
Lara, who works full-time for Wounded Warriors, will perform similar speaking duties at 1757 Golf Club in Dulles, Virginia before showing off his golfing skills.
Lara is thankful for his every moment after his near brush with death, and always thankful to Wounded Warriors from rescuing him from the depths of despair.
The WLGO's association has proved the perfect fit, and Hill believes golf is also benefiting from opening up its courses to people who might not normally be attracted to the sport.
Having already presented a check for $735,000 in January, Hill hopes this year's fundraising will break through the $1 million mark.
"You can't have a bad day on a golf course," says the 41-year-old.