There are a million reasons why food is big in the Bay.
2.
But the big one is 3.
They have.
The 60-year-old Mycological Society of San Francisco (read: "mushroom people") meets monthly and organizes occasional walks, but the most comprehensive foraging group in the Bay is ForageSF.
His sea foraging tour, offered through ForageSF, was recently named "Best Walking Tour" in San Francisco.
Kirk is a former catch monitor for the California Department of Fish and Game, and, as my girlfriend pointed out, the only person under 70 who can wear a small brown fedora without looking like a tool.
His signature fishing method involves poking around for fish with a pole that has a six-inch line and a baited hook at the end.
I'd lost 60 bucks of tackle and was utterly defeated when I saw this guy walk by with a pole and bucket overflowing with fish.
He let Kirk follow him for three days until he got the swing of things.
The rest of his repertoire revolves around his encyclopedic knowledge of the creatures that live in and around the Bay.
San Francisco's vast cultural and architectural riches can sometimes reduce the Bay to blue embroidery around the bottom of a window, but the sea-foraging expedition reasserts the water to its rightful place at the center of things.
Kirk's methods are intended to be applied mostly up north in Marin County or south of San Francisco in Half Moon Bay.
Founded in 2008 by Iso Rabins, a young bearded guy whose knack for identifying wild foodstuffs is matched only by his knack for entrepreneurship, ForageSF calls itself a "wild foods community," which means they don't just gather and distribute wild foods, they also teach classes, hold market events and host wild kitchen dinners -- a roving monthly dinner party that pops up on boats and lofts around the city.
The dinner I attended was held on the top floor of a nondescript building in San Francisco's part-trendy, part-sketchy SOMA neighborhood.
When we finally arrived on our floor and turned the corner we found ourselves in a room the size of a city block with two tables filled with 40 people each and an exposed clawfoot tub replete with functional plumbing and a guitar pick of soap resting on the drain.
The woman sitting to my left was a grade school principal from a small town an hour south.
Here are the things we put in our stomachs: wild porcini escargot, braised octopus with wild nettle salsa verde, wild boar scotch quail egg with champagne frisée, black cod with morel duxelles and wild New Zealand spinach, wild nettle and heirloom tomato tart, summer bean and fingerling potato salad with wild grape verjus, lemon curd with wild elderberry cream and fennel pollen sugar.
But when you learn that the escargot were found in yards around San Francisco and that the New Zealand spinach grows wild everywhere and that the morels, mushrooms and grapes were picked for free, and that the fish was line caught nearby and the boar was hunted and killed in the wild by the chef, even the skeptics have to admit it's a pretty neat feat no matter how much words like "verjus" (still don't know what it means) get your (factory-farmed) goat.
It was exactly the sort of thing you think you're missing out on when you read about San Francisco and you're not there.
Old people next to me smiling, obviously in love.