New York (CNN) -- When US Airways Flight 1549 ditched in the Hudson River and all of its 150 passengers and five crew members were safely rescued in January, the landing of the airplane by pilot Chesley Sullenberger was quickly proclaimed the "Miracle on the Hudson" and dominated national news for days.
...
"Many good things happened, but they all related to the individual strength of the people involved.
Langewiesche, international editor for Vanity Fair and author of six other books, was drawn to the story because it allowed him to use it as a window to tell the tale of the aircraft, the Airbus A320, a controversial plane built with digital controls that rein in pilots who exceed safe flying limits.
In an interview with The New York Times, Sullenberger said, "There are some situations where the automation will protect a pilot, but at the same time a highly automated airplane makes possible other types of errors, so it's a mixed blessing.
William Langewiesche: I realized that because this airplane is the A320, which is a revolutionary plane, not just any airplane, the story of the A320 is in many ways the story of the modern airline industry of the last 20, 30 or 40 years.
...
...
The airplane will take over, and it will override the pilot, and philosophically that's a really provocative thing to do.
It happened so late in the flare that my gut feeling is that it was kind of irrelevant, that the inertia of the airplane was going to dominate the landing and so it probably doesn't matter.
Langewiesche: Of course, it's justified.
While in most simulations conducted after the fact, pilots were able to get back to the airport safely, he made the right decision.
In a way to use the word miracle is to insult what they did -- skilled flying in an extremely competent airplane.
And with deregulation, the salary of the pilot had been downsized.
It's technically possible, and the U.S. flies drones in Afghanistan ... but obviously that's not the future of airlines in a dense traffic world with the public aboard.
There was a time, a glorious interval, when airline pilots were paid a lot of money and there was still prestige associated with the job ... but after deregulation everything changed.
Langewiesche: Pilots, of course, are central.
Langewiesche: If you look at new pilots coming in now, these guys are as competent as the older guys, and they're being paid a lot less money.
Langewiesche: This thing we hear so repetitively -- it's actually the safety briefing on a plane, which is probably a pretty good guide to it.
Let's face it, airlines are extremely safe, specifically because of the contributions of the people involved in this success story -- the pilots, the engineers, the flight controllers, the flight attendants.
...
Clearly, they were flying a fly-by-wire airplane, and that's part of the story.
There's no argument here from my side.