Be it a safari through the endangered red wolf's habitat or stargazing from the highest mountain range in the United States, nighttime is the right time for outdoor adventures in national wildlife refuges and national parks.
The best chance to hear them is during Howling Safari night hikes at Alligator River National Wildlife Refuge in East Lake, North Carolina.
If you go: The hike costs $7 per person and children 11 and younger are free.
The hikes last about two hours and pets are not allowed.
Where: Pahranagat National Wildlife Refuge is about an hour and a half north of Las Vegas, and Moapa Valley National Wildlife Refuge is about an hour northeast of Las Vegas.
When: There are program options for people staying near the east and west side of the park, which are a about two hours apart.
"Astronomy in the Park" takes place on the east side.
Where: The east entrance to Rocky Mountain National Park is about an hour and 15 minutes west of Fort Collins and two hours northwest of Denver.
If you go: The programs are free, but park admission is $20 per vehicle.
The vistas are beautiful during the day, but the park also offers the chance to view them under the expanse of a Western night sky during full-moon hikes.
Admission to the park is $25 per vehicle and $12 for individuals (bicycles, motorcycles and hikers) and is valid for seven days.
While you're in the area, check out Zion National Park, which is less than two hours southwest; Grand Canyon National Park, which is five hours southwest.
If you go: The hikes are between one and two miles.
The cave at Carlsbad Caverns National Park is a part-time home to Brazilian free-tailed bats.
Before the bats fly, park rangers give an interpretative program explaining why bats use the cave as a place to raise pups.
Where: Carlsbad Caverns National Park is in the southeast corner of New Mexico, about a two and a half hour drive east of El Paso, Texas, and two hours south of Roswell.
Call the Bat Flight information line 575-785-3012 for updates on start times.
Pets are not allowed.