Still, it's not the first time the 81-year-old chairman of News Corp. has been grilled in the United Kingdom.
The awkward questions come as News Corp. also faces investigation in the United States over alleged phone hacking and increased scrutiny in Australia following an inquiry into media standards.
And it's significant in part because of the sheer scale of News Corp.'s operations in the United Kingdom, the United States, Australia and elsewhere.
For 60 years, Murdoch has been both a powerful private citizen in the United Kingdom, United States and Australia, and a businessman wielding huge influence, Wolff said.
Given that about 60% of the UK population reads a national newspaper, Murdoch's influence is hard to overstate, said Steven Barnett, professor of communications at the University of Westminster in London.
Murdoch."
"I, in 10 years in his power there, never asked Tony Blair for any favors and never received any," Murdoch said.
Nonetheless, the relationship with News Corp. has been key to Britain's politicians, Barnett said.
"He has more power than any other private citizen in the United States," said Wolff.
When the tea party movement began to coalesce in opposition to President Barack Obama in 2009, Murdoch's Fox News in particular helped boost it to national prominence, she said.
Their only weakness, she said, is that Fox News viewers tend to be older -- a minus for advertisers.
Andrew Neil, a former editor of the Sunday Times under Murdoch, said the media baron -- who became a U.S. citizen in 1985 -- had been heavily coached by his New York lawyers on how not to jeopardize those vital American interests through intemperate outbursts in London.
That said, the fact Murdoch was before the Leveson Inquiry at all reveals a significant lessening of his power in Britain, Wolff said.
The son in question, James Murdoch, a senior News Corp. executive who was chairman of News International at the time of the alleged phone hacking but has since resigned from that role, testified before the inquiry Tuesday.
CNN's Matt Smith contributed to this report.