But here's what I also know: You wish you could once and for all get your financial house in order.
A recent study by Prudential Financial found that less than 25 percent of women feel they are "very well prepared" to handle financial matters.
And Build Security is about knowing where to put all that money you free up.
Make 2010 the year you find your financial confidence.
Input your average monthly expenses, and get honest about where your money is going.
So your credit reports, which determine your FICO score, need to be up-to-date and correct (mistakes abound).
Do this now: Go to AnnualCreditReport.com to get your free credit reports from the three credit bureaus: Equifax, Experian, and TransUnion.
Once corrections are made, go to MyFICO.com to buy your FICO credit score.
Cut Spending by 10 Percent Why it's important: The median pay raise for 2010 is expected to be around 3 percent (the lowest forecast in 25 years).
You're nuts if you don't comparison shop for auto insurance; you could save 10 percent or more.
Do this now: Go to InsWeb.com and NetQuote.com to find premium quotes from a variety of home and auto insurers.
(But do this only if you have an emergency savings fund that can cover the cost of the deductible.
Do this now: Go to FindaCreditUnion.com and look for one that is part of the federal insurance program run by the National Credit Union Administration (go to NCUA.gov and click on Consumer Share Insurance Information and Tool Kit to check).
Challenge your property-tax assessment Why it's important: Your tax is typically a percentage of your home's assessed value.
Boost emergency fund to cover 8 months of living expenses Why it's important: By now I am sure you have started saving.
Get the maximum 401(k) match at your current job Why it's important: If you left it to your company to auto-enroll you in the plan when you were hired, there's a good chance your contribution rate is too low to max out on the match.
Roll over 401(k)s from former employers into an IRA Why it's important: Once you leave a job, you can move your 401(k) to a brokerage or fund firm.
Fund a Roth IRA Why it's important: After you max out on the company match in your 401(k), turn your retirement investing attention to funding a Roth IRA.
Leave your retirement funds alone Why it's important: Can't handle the mortgage?
When that money runs out, you'll still face foreclosure, but you'll have lost your retirement savings, too.
Under "current principal," input the value of your 401(k).
Convert to a Roth IRA Why it's important: As of January 1, anyone can convert a traditional IRA to a Roth IRA (previously there was an income limit).
Do this now: Convert in 2010 and you can spread your tax bill over the next two years.
Subscribe now!