(CNN) -- During the first presidential debate Wednesday night, the candidates talked a lot about how they would lower the cost of your medical care.
1.
Each year, health care costs have gone up during Obama's administration -- that is true.
Rising health care costs are a significant problem, though.
2.
Obama's first specific reference to health care described how the administration pursued medical fraud in Medicare and Medicaid "more aggressively than ever before," which saved the system tens of billions of dollars.
They have saved taxpayers billions; however, a Government Accountability Office investigation concluded that while progress has been made under Obama, more could be done.
3.
Sending Medicaid back to the states would save the federal government money, but cost states more and adversely impact those using the benefits.
It would accomplish this by converting the program into a block grant that would in large part shift costs to the states, which Romney argued would give states more flexibility to do what they deem best to help their Medicaid population.
That formula doesn't account for rising health care costs (remember the cost of health insurance has gone up 113% since 2001), nor does it account for the aging population.
Health care costs would go up significantly to accommodate this 20% increase in the number of people over 60 who will need more health care.
4.
It's the figure mentioned in a letter from the Congressional Budget Office sent to House Speaker John Boehner in July.
That means Medicare would cost the government more.
If more people have health insurance, hospitals will have to care for fewer of the uninsured.
5.
The candidates agreed during the debate that more needs to be done to control the cost of health care.
One approach he highlighted was the collaborative approach of the clinic's doctors.
The team of doctors also provides preventive care.
An analysis done by the Dartmouth Atlas of Health Care found that the Cleveland Clinic did treat Medicare patients for tens of thousands of dollars less than many other medical centers.
As of right now, Medicare acts a lot like those traditional hospitals do, Thorpe said.