But I've spent the last few days in Athens sightseeing the country's digital future.
"The future is full of opportunity.
But today, in a Greece wracked by the most serious economic crisis for at least a century, the truth about the country's economic future is mostly the opposite of these advertisements.
In this classic Southern European gerontocracy in which at least 50% of young people are unemployed, age actually mostly represents an impenetrable barrier to ambition.
It's a digital renaissance and it's being pioneered by a new generation of talented young Internet entrepreneurs who are trying to reinvent not only the Greek economy and society, but also Greece's role in today's global economy.
"There's no other option," Tasos Frantzolas, the founder of Soundsnap who splits his time between New York and Athens, told me about this entrepreneurial renaissance in Greece.
In the Greek digital economy, even the smallest business have to be multinational.
"But it was a great decision," she explained, because digital is "booming" in Greece and it's an ideal market to "think global and act local."
The biggest problem, of course, remains the oppressively bureaucratic Greek state that, in spite of the crisis, continues to be a major obstacle to entrepreneurial innovation.
As Stavros Messinis, the co-founder of CoLab told me, Greece remains a "tough environment" for entrepreneurs.
As Warp.ly CEO Doxaras explained, most Greeks -- even its younger generation -- don't "get" the idea that Greece, if it wants to compete in the 21st century global economy, has any other option but to become a start-up nation like Israel.
Oddly enough, a possible Greek exit from the euro is seen by many entrepreneurs as a much a blessing in disguise for their businesses as a catastrophe.
Yet in spite of the danger of a complete economic meltdown, the future remains full of opportunity for Greece's young digital entrepreneurs.
But a country best known for its antiquities might turn out to be a key hub for radical innovation in our digital economy.