Because of their discovery, scientists quickly developed a test for the virus.
But had Barre-Sinoussi listened to one leader at the lab where she would eventually find fame, she may never have been a scientist at all.
But she says she ended up spending little time in class.
"It just was not done at the time, but I wanted to try," she says.
"He said, 'OK, if you want to be a volunteer here part time, that would be fine with me,' " she recalls.
She worked to find a connection between retroviruses, cancer and leukemia in animals.
She wanted to know if she could continue working there.
I said, 'That is one of my dreams.'
"
She returned to Montagnier's unit; his lab was one of the few still examining the connection between retroviruses and cancer.
Many were young gay men who should have been at their healthiest.
No one responded, said Barre-Sinoussi, who wasn't at the lecture.
Barre-Sinoussi says she and Montagnier had never heard of it then, but they agreed to do some research.
It made isolating the virus extremely difficult.
The T lymphocytes in the culture started dying.
"So we knew it had to be something else," Barre-Sinoussi says.
The researchers knew because it started to infect the new lymphocytes from the blood donation and there was enough that a colleague was able to take the first actual image of the virus.
"
And it did.
"So many people ask me if we were excited about the discovery, but so many young people were dying," Barre-Sinoussi says.
"They just wanted to be close to the place that made the discovery," she says.
In 2008, when the Nobel Prize winners were about to be announced, the Nobel committee couldn't find Barre-Sinoussi to tell her.
She says the Nobel committee called her lab and her home without luck.
and then she started to cry," Barre-Sinoussi says.
Barre-Sinoussi says she couldn't believe it.
"This is a good thing of the Nobel Prize -- it is easier for me to get an appointment with the first lady or the president of the country," Barre-Sinoussi says.
"A total cure -- the total eradication of the virus will be extremely difficult if not impossible," she says.
The attention her discovery has brought Barre-Sinoussi has changed everything, just like her friend warned, she says.
I told him what he said.
'You did.'
And I'm so glad I did not listen."