The 7-2 majority said the state's voter-approved Proposition 200 interfered with federal law designed to make voter registration easier.
The Obama Justice Department opposed the Arizona law, which went beyond what other states have done to ensure integrity in the registration system.
Justice Anthony Kennedy a year ago blocked the Arizona law from being enforced, while the high court decided internally whether to accept pending appeals for review.
It requires states to have any application for a driver's license treated also as a voter registration -- the "motor voter."
A federal Election Assistance Commission was created to produce a nationally uniform voter application form, which states must use.
The state said they had prosecuted cases of noncitizens registering to vote.
Or does the court believe that a state may ask for additional information in individual cases but may not impose a categorical requirement for all applicants?
The Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund, which helped bring the original lawsuit against the state regulations, said 31,000 potential voters had their applications rejected in the two years after the Arizona law took effect.
The group's Nina Perales said voter registration drives at county fairs, church services and similar venues have dropped, since many potential voters don't bring the necessary citizenship documents -- like a birth certificate -- to these community events.
But Proposition 200 supporters say the state needs the power to keep illegal immigrants and those ineligible to vote in the U.S. from getting a ballot.
It is essential that our elections be secured by ensuring that only citizens register to vote."
"It ought to be common sense that proof of citizenship be required for voter registration, especially given the concrete evidence we've seen that illegal aliens are indeed both registered and voting.
As a retired justice, she can sit on lower appeals court cases, and she was part of a 9-2 majority to rule in 2010 that Arizona's citizenship requirement conflicted with federal law.