The streets of Rome are lined with adoring football fans as the team bus winds its way towards the the Stadio Olimpico for Roma's biggest match of the season against bitter rivals Juventus with the prize of the Italian championship hanging in the balance.
"I've been to many, many sporting events across the world," says Sean Foley, vice president of sport and media at the Raptor Group -- which is headed up by Roma's American owner James Pallotta.
In partnership with Google, Roma is attempting to transport the match-day experience across the globe, using the latest technology and the power of social media to attract new fans from every corner of the world.
"We know we're not going to win over many more fans in Italy," says Foley.
So back on the sofa, those iPad fans will watch a YouTube livestream following the Roma team bus as it journeys to the stadium, with drones flying above the crowd to give an altogether different perspective to viewers watching the big game.
The Raptor Group's involvements in sport, technology and social media, as Foley explains, means Roma is uniquely positioned to exploit new technologies.
"When people tell you there are 3.5 billion football fans in the world, as a way to engage people on our platforms, it's certainly something for us to look at," says Max Goldstein, sports partnerships manager for Google.
Like Google, Twitter wants to put itself inside the stadium.
"If you look across all social media platforms, there's a huge amount of interest in football," says Goldstein.
It's a far cry from how football looked in the 1970s, the era that Paul Tomkins, growing up in England, was first entranced by a dominant Liverpool team.
Tomkins has been involved with football and Liverpool as a fan, season ticket holder, journalist and author and has seen social media change how rival supporters interact with each other.
"You see a lot of fans tweeting about their rival's demise and the whole schadenfreude thing.
"When you look at how clubs have organically grown over the years and now they're kind of touting for new fans, you have unfortunate things," said Tomkins, referring to the Dunkin' Donuts gaffe.
Tomkins also doubts whether increasing a club's social media popularity necessarily translate into creating true football fans.
I don't know whether social media is part of gaining true fans or just gaining 'likes' on Facebook.
Google and Roma will be hoping that the football fans of tomorrow disagree.