Los Angeles (CNN)Three area residents were arrested and charged Wednesday for allegedly operating four Southern California schools for Korean and Chinese students who never attended classes and lived in other states on student visas in a "pay-to-stay" scheme.
Hee Sun Shim, 51, of Beverly Hills, is the owner and manager and of the postsecondary schools and is charged with 13 counts of use or possession of an immigration document procured by fraud, authorities said.
Three of the schools are in Los Angeles' Koreatown neighborhood: Prodee University/Neo-America Language School; Walter Jay M.D.
"What we've broken up is a pay-to-stay scheme," said Claude Arnold, special agent in charge of the Los Angeles office of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement.
Prodee University/Neo-America Language School was located on the fifth floor of a Los Angeles office tower near the Koreatown neighborhood, but Homeland Security Investigations agents said they found the school "abandoned" during their raid on Wednesday.
The school featured classrooms, administrative offices and a small library, but no one occupied the spaces.
One federal agent said many of the students listed on the school rolls were older, in their 30s, 40s and 50s.
The schools were authorized by the federal government to issue a document that certified a foreign student had been accepted to a school and would be attending classes full time in the United States, authorities said.
An unannounced federal inspection of Prodee's main site in 2011 found only one English class with three students, though the school listed an enrollment of 900 students for its two sites, prosecutors said.
On the same day, federal authorities also visited the American College of Forensic Studies found only one religion with one student, though the school claimed an enrollment of more than 300 foreign students, prosecutors said.
Wednesday's arrests follow last week's federal raids of more than three dozen "maternity hotels" in Southern California where foreign women give birth, allegedly for the sole purpose of having a U.S.-citizen baby, authorities said.
Specifically, authorities in the maternity tourism raids obtained search warrants for 37 location and conducted searches at more than 50 locations, including sites that consented to a federal search, said Virginia Kice, a spokeswoman for U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement.