Sarah Palin's hometown required women to pay for their own rape examinations while she was mayor, a practice her police chief fought to keep as late as 2000.
Former state Rep. Eric Croft, a Democrat, sponsored a state law requiring cities to provide the examinations free of charge to victims.
Alaska's Legislature in 2000 banned the practice of charging women for rape exam kits -- which experts said could cost up to $1,000.
For years, Alaska has had the worst record of any state in rape and in murder of women by men.
During the time Palin was mayor of Wasilla, her city was not the only one in Alaska charging rape victims.
Tara Henry, a forensic nurse who has been treating rape victims across Alaska for the last 12 years, told CNN that opposition to Croft's bill from Wasilla Police Chief Charlie Fannon was memorable.
"Several municipal law enforcement agencies in the state did have trouble budgeting and paying for the evidence collection for sexual assault victims,"  Henry said.
He does not recall discussing the issue with then-Mayor Palin.
During a rape exam, the victim removes her clothing and a medical professional gathers DNA evidence from her body.
The bill passed unanimously with the support of the Alaska Department of Public Safety, the Alaska Peace Officers Association and more than two dozen co-sponsors.
After it became law, Wasilla's police chief told the local paper, The Frontiersman, that it would cost the city $5,000 to $14,000 a year -- money that he'd have to find.
"The bigger picture of what was going on at the time was that the state was trying to cut their own budget, and one of the things that they were doing was passing on costs to cities, and that was one of the many things that they were passing on, the cost to the city," said Patrick, who recalls enormous pressure to keep the city's budget down.
Patrick was also a member of Wasilla City Council, and she doesn't recall the issue coming before council members, nor does she remember discussing the issue with Palin.
Before Palin came to City Hall, the Wasilla Police Department paid for rape kits out of a fund for miscellaneous costs, according to the police chief who preceded Fannon and was fired by Palin.
"She does not, nor has she ever believed that rape victims should have to pay for an evidence gathering test."
They point to a small funding increase for domestic violence shelters at a time when Alaska has a multibillion-dollar budget surplus.
The McCain-Palin campaign insists that fighting domestic violence and sexual assault are priorities for Palin.
As governor, Palin approved a funding increase for domestic violence shelters -- $266,200 over two years.