(CNN) -- "Beyond the hedonism of tasting these wines -- and the hedonism of tasting these wines is going to be off the charts -- I think there will be two very important ideas that come out of this," says wine educator and "The Wine Bible" author Karen MacNeil as we share a bottle of Stony Hill 2012 Napa Valley Gewurztraminer over lunch.
As wineries gear up for harvest, pickers move through sun-drenched vineyards, hand-dropping fruit to improve the quality of the final crop; equipment, already cleaned and prepared, stands idle at winery buildings, ready to process the fruit.
The Napa Valley Experience -- organized by the nonprofit, 500-member Napa Valley Vintners association from September 7-10 -- is arguably the most sensational event taking place this harvest season.
When I eat with celebrated vintner Michael Honig at Michael Chiarello's Bottega in the foodie mecca of upscale Yountville, he has a treat to share -- a bottle of the Honig 2010 Westside Trio Cabernet Sauvignon, a limited edition Premiere Napa Valley auction label, which he cradles in the crook of one elbow.
During a pit stop at my lodging for the next three nights -- the stunning, vintner-owned, forest-cocooned Meadowood property in St. Helena -- I have time to appreciate the events of the day and the beauty of my surroundings.
"Vines started developing, the people starting coming, then Napa started something that in the world now is pretty prevalent -- opening the cellars to tourists.
Located on Pritchard Hill, Chappellet is another vineyard where spectacular views and a feeling of being connected to the landscape are integral to the experience.
This will be the setting for a private Napa Valley Experience harvest party on the final night of the event.
"I could go into family-owned, solar-powered, certified organic, but I really want people to feel this place and to come away and realize that they've been somewhere really special, both because of the stewardship and because of the magic of the property itself," says Chappellet.
she says, before greeting a team precision-grafting rootstock and bud to produce new sauvignon blanc vines come spring.
At Hall Rutherford, after a discussion of the philosophy behind the winemaking process, Mike Reynolds, Hall Wines Napa Valley president and winemaker, and owner Kathryn Hall, pose a challenge -- to blend my own version of the Kathryn Hall cabernet from the barrel provided.
She was given a preview of this year's Napa Valley Experience.