Time is running out: ISIS put out a video Tuesday giving the Japanese government 72 hours to pay $200 million, or else Kenji Goto and Haruna Yukawa -- like other ISIS captives before them -- will be killed.
Suga said his government will do its utmost to communicate with ISIS on the fate of Goto and Yukawa through a third party, such as another nation's government or a local tribe.
Absent such a private back-and-forth, the Japanese official voiced his government's stance publicly, including its defense of a proposed aid package, also tabbed at $200 million, to help those who are "contending" with ISIS, according to Prime Minister Shinzo Abe.
It was January 2014 when Kimoto met Yukawa, who told him about his dream of providing security for Japanese ships in dangerous areas, such as waters off Somalia sometimes plagued by pirates.
Goto gave Yukawa insights on how to survive there, Kimoto said.
"I felt a chill when he said, after returning home, (that) he felt in Syria he was really living a life," Kimoto said.
He went back to Syria in July -- a trip that Kimoto said he didn't know about at the time.
Alaaeddin Al Zaim worked as a fixer for Goto.
I'm Japanese.
Another fixer agreed to take Goto to ISIS, Al Zaim said.
After one week, if I don't hear any news of them or any connection, I have to call them," said Al Zaim, who remembers seeing Goto for the last time on October 25.
Anytime he want to do his job very well ...
I have to do that.'"
The Islamist militant group has been behind mass killings and kidnappings during its years-long campaign to take over vast swaths of Iraq and Syria, attempting to justify its actions -- like enslaving and having sex with young girls -- as somehow consistent with its extreme, conservative faith.
Those beheaded hostages were American and British, both from countries involved in a military campaign against ISIS.
"Although you are more than 8,500 kilometers away from the Islamic State, you willingly volunteered to take part in this crusade," said the masked man who stood over Goto and Yukawa in Tuesday's video, addressing his comments to Abe.
CNN's Will Ripley, Gul Tuysuz, Jethro Mullen and Junko Ogura contributed to this report.