"In the case of yesterday's election, we must be absolutely certain that our Republican primary was won by Republican voters," he said.
In a high-profile New York primary, U.S. Rep. Charlie Rangel emerged victorious in what he says is his last race, posting a second straight narrow win over the same opponent he faced two years ago when he barely kept his seat in the House.
The only challenge to election results must go through the courts.
Mississippi law allows anyone to vote in the runoff, meaning Democrats could go to the polls as long as they hadn't voted in the Democratic primary and didn't plan to vote for their party's candidate in the general election.
Haley Barbour, said he was proud that his organization was active in the effort to court Democratic voters.
I think most people in America think that's a good thing," he said, arguing that the strategy could be helpful for other Republicans nationwide, especially as the GOP works to rebrand its image.
"And so we all have a right to be proud of our state tonight.
Rangel had said win or lose this race was his last campaign.
Rangel, the former chairman of the tax-writing House Committee on Ways and Means, was forced to step down from that post in 2010, and the House censured him for ethics violations later that year.
Espaillat said early Wednesday he wasn't giving in until all the votes were counted.
Rep. James Lankford easily won Oklahoma's Republican Senate primary in a race to succeed retiring GOP Sen. Tom Coburn.
There were seven candidates in the race, but the contest turned into a battle between the two front-runners: Lankford and Shannon.
He was backed by such tea party heroes as Sen. Ted Cruz of Texas and former Alaska Gov.
Lankford, who has risen through the ranks to become Republican Policy Committee chairman -- the fifth-ranking House Republican -- in two terms in Congress, was criticized by many on the right for his vote to raise the debt ceiling.
"If we win in November, I pray we can do this same thing for Sen. (Harry) Reid."
Conceding the race, Shannon said: "Tonight this campaign is over, but our cause remains and our cause continues.
In a state dominated by Democrats, Brown will now be considered the favorite in the general election to succeed term-limited Democratic Gov.
• In Colorado, CNN projects that former Rep. Bob Beauprez will win the GOP primary for governor, topping anti-immigration firebrand Tom Tancredo, a former congressman and presidential hopeful, and two other candidates.
Beauprez will face Democratic Gov.
There will be an August primary ahead of November's general election.