(CNN) -- The United States will talk to North Korea, but only if the country gets serious about negotiating the end of its nuclear weapons program, Secretary of State John Kerry said Friday during a visit to South Korea, a key U.S. ally.
U.S. officials think North Korea could test-launch a mobile ballistic missile at any time in what would be seen by the international community as a highly provocative move.
And Kerry said Friday that it would be inaccurate to suggest that North Korea, which has conducted three underground nuclear weapons tests since 2006, can launch a nuclear-armed missile, despite the DIA assessment.
South Korean Foreign Minister Yun Byung-se, speaking with Kerry at a Friday news conference, urged North Korea to open talks.
The surprising Defense Intelligence Agency assessment of North Korea's potential nuclear capabilities emerged during Thursday's House Armed Services Committee hearing.
Pentagon spokesman George Little said that "it would be inaccurate to suggest that the North Korean regime has fully tested, developed or demonstrated the kinds of nuclear capabilities referenced" in the DIA study.
"I have to believe they know what they're doing," said McKeon, chairman of the House Armed Services Committee.
On Thursday, North Korea briefly raised a missile into an upright firing position, stoking concerns that a launch was imminent, a U.S. official told CNN.
The first U.S. official cautioned that raising the untested Musudan missile, which South Korea says has a range of up to 2,175 miles (3,500 kilometers), could have been just a trial run or an effort to "mess" with the United States and its allies.
An official South Korean investigation found that many of the malignant codes employed in the attacks were similar to ones used previously by the North, said Lee Seung-won, an official at the South Korean science ministry.
Late Friday, Japan's Transport Ministry issued a notice requiring Japanese airplanes to report to the U.S. military if they fly near the U.S. military's Kadena base in Okinawa prefecture, the Kyodo News Agency said.
The notice, made at the request of the U.S. military in Japan, is believed to be part of precautions taken against possible North Korean missile launches.
Kerry said Friday that U.S. officials were working to calm the crisis, noting President Barack Obama had canceled some of the exercises.
CNN's K.J.