When the Parr family started having serious health problems late in 2008, they had no idea it was associated with what they call "a multitude" of drilling operations that popped up near their 40-acre ranch in Decatur, 60 miles northwest of Dallas.
I couldn't hear, and my vision was messed up.
According to the lawsuit, Aruba Petroleum had 22 natural gas wells within a 2-mile radius of the Parrs' property, with three wells in close proximity to their Texas home.
Aruba Petroleum argued to the jury that it consistently met state regulatory standards for air emissions and that there was no evidence its fracking of the wells harmed the Parr family in any way.
The company further said it complied with state air-quality limits and that its experts made strong cases countering the Parrs' claims in court.
Lisa Parr said that she knew by July 2010 that the "loud operation" next door to their ranch was toxic.
You will spend more time and money on hospitals, chemotherapy, and a mortician ... and you need to get an environmental health doctor immediately,' " she said.
He said he believes the Parrs' court victory -- which he says is the first jury award for personal injury in a U.S. fracking case -- "marks an important precedent for the future of natural gas production."
"The facts of the case and the law as applied to those facts do not support the verdict.
Attorneys who represent the energy sector and are familiar with Parr v. Aruba Petroleum Inc. say they don't believe the case will set a precedent.
Wendy May, a Dallas-based attorney who represented a prior defendant in the case before that company was dismissed from the lawsuit, says she doesn't think the Parrs' jury award will survive an appeal.
Gail Wurtzler, another environmental defense attorney, agrees with May that this is a one-off case because of the "situational" facts involved.
They're now living at their ranch again and say that since Aruba has put units on their well sites to clean the air -- and the well closest to them has been shut down -- they are feeling better.
I don't trust this company," Lisa Parr said.
"We are not anti-fracking or anti-drilling.
If you are going to put this stuff in close proximity to homes, be respectful and careful."