On Sundays, the NFL's cool efficiency can look more bloodless than its own video games, as if the real thing was now just a parlor game to bet on.
I embedded for a season with players, coaches, boosters and families to chronicle the rise, fall and hoped-for resurrection of the winningest high school football program in America.
It won so often, for so long, that it could lose every game for the next 65 seasons and still have a record above .500.
During a wake a couple years ago for one longtime fan, six tickets for the next home game were spotted in the open casket.
The players wanted to talk to me about why they went out there on Friday nights and what football meant to them.
For Reggie McQueen, a defensive back and aspiring rapper, taking the field on Friday nights allowed him to watch his parents smile, talk with a dead aunt, and play a little ball beside his murdered cousin.
Then came the game.
Or: "This is a big one, Junior.
Their deaths still weighed heavily on Reggie, and the football field felt like a secure, supportive place to work some of that out.
"I got a lot of people who aren't here on my back," Reggie told me one night.
"On the field, it's my own world," he went on.
"It's more than a game.
On the field on Friday night, I'm doing something that loves me back -- I love it and it loves me back."
The game also gave Reggie another thing he couldn't find anywhere else: a taste of immortality, no small thing on the disposable streets where he grew up.
"I seen people standing on that same corner all my life," Reggie said.
Like Reggie, teammate Malcolm Mitchell also learned to love the game in high school, and it loved him back, too.
But while Reggie's last football game as a player was his last game as a Wildcat -- he raps full time now under the stage name Jim Rock -- Malcolm has gone on to star at wide receiver for the University of Georgia.
That last high school season, he told me about a voice in his head when he took the field, how it told him to anticipate something before it happened, and what to do when it came about.
Stan went on to become an NFL wide receiver, as well as the father of Jay Rome, another highly recruited Wildcat and now Malcolm's teammate and roommate at Georgia.
"I got my way into the museum -- into the history books," Malcolm said one afternoon after that season.
Malcolm just smiled.
"For an athlete who loves to play the game, it happens more than you know," he said.
Just forgot.