(CNN) -- Smoking is bad for you, and by now, most of us know it.
To recap: Smoking exponentially increases your risk of developing lung cancer (and other lung diseases, like emphysema and chronic bronchitis) and puts you at higher risk for cancer of the mouth, throat, larynx, esophagus, bladder, pancreas, kidney, cervix and stomach.
If you are in Kentucky, the state with the highest smoking rate, more than one out of every four people (28.3 percent) around you smokes.
Here's the good news: "Smoking prevalence in the entire country has gone under 20 percent for first time in over 50 years," said Dr. Richard Hurt, director of the Nicotine Dependence Center at the Mayo Clinic.
Unlike most smokers, he picked up the habit during college; according to the CDC, about 90 percent of heavy smokers start in high school.
According to the American Cancer Society, each day more than 3,500 people younger than 18 try their first cigarette, and 1,100 others become regular daily smokers.
iReport.com: Do you still smoke?
Dimmitt has even more incentive to quit now, since developing lesions and irritation in his mouth.
Some would-be smokers pick up their first cigarette to fit in.
Said Lisa "Smith," 44, a recently laid-off administrator from Minnesota, "I began smoking in junior high school because I wanted to fit in with a certain crowd.
"There is a lot of research right now that shows that smoking in the movies has made a comeback.
...
...
"When I was born, my mother was allowed to smoke in the hospital room with me in there," Jerome said.
How the times have changed."
Dulcie Long, 50, of Denver, Colorado, said, "I won't say I feel actual 'social discrimination,' but it is something I feel a sense of shame about and do my best not to smoke in the presence of friends.
...
Hurt says that there is also a much higher prevalence of smoking among people with mental health disorders like depression, alcoholics, drug users and schizophrenics.
President-elect Barack Obama has struggled with, and seems to have conquered, his habit.
Said Hurt, "This is only product that I know on the face of the Earth which, if it is used as recommended by manufacturer, kills 60 percent of its customers."