(CNN) -- Standard Chartered has agreed to pay a $340 million fine to New York banking regulators to settle charges it laundered money for Iranian clients -- but the UK bank is far from the only one to be implicated in illegal transactions with sanctioned nations.
Further, bank officials engaged in repeated violations of U.S. sanctions, stripping the identifier information from tens of thousands of Iranian transactions valued in the billions.
Standard Chartered Bank (SCB) has agreed to pay the New York State Department of Financial Services (DFS) $340 million to settle charges that the British bank concealed over $250 billion in transactions with Iranian clients and deliberately lied to New York banking regulators.
Then, this June, ING Bank paid the largest ever fine -- $619 million -- against a bank for allegedly moving billions illegally through the U.S. financial system on behalf of Iranian and Cuban clients.
Why not?
Further, when bank officials masked the identities of Iranian clients and thwarted American efforts to detect money laundering and terrorist financing, they violated numerous federal laws, including the International Emergency Economic Powers Act, and the wire fraud, bank fraud, money laundering, and RICO statutes.
Could criminal prosecution of senior bank officials result in the ultimate collapse of the bank?
The Department of Justice and federal regulators appear to have adopted the policy: "impose a fine against the bank but don't prosecute suspected corrupt bank officials."
If SCB allegedly laundered $250 billion for Iranian clients, why did regulators only fine the bank a paltry $340 million?
Perhaps New York regulators were under mounting criticism and pressure from federal authorities for taking unilateral action against SCB and DFS wanted to resolve the case as quickly as possible.
The DFS leveled extremely serious charges against SCB, referring to the bank as a "rogue" institution that "left the U.S. financial system vulnerable to terrorists, weapons dealers, drug kingpins and corrupt regimes."
Is the ultimate penalty imposed against offending banks going to be more or less severe than sanctions imposed by the federal authorities?
In the end, the justice system cannot tolerate a dual system of justice, exempting corrupt bank officials from prosecution for fear of negative economic repercussions.
Bank officials who knowingly and wilfully violate the laws enacted to prevent banks from being used to facilitate money laundering, terrorist financing, and financial dealings with rogue regimes should be held accountable and punished to the full extent of the law.