Joseph, who was still recovering from giving birth at the city's Beth Israel Medical Center, said hospital officials notified her of her baby's death and had her sign off on a city burial.
"It was a nightmare," said Joseph, who was then 23 years old and later found it nearly impossible to find where her daughter's remains were buried.
Hunt, 53, has made it her life's work to document the undocumented at Hart Island, reportedly the nation's largest taxpayer-funded potter's field -- a term used for a place where the unclaimed dead are buried.
"For 33 years, I've been trying to find where my child is," said Joseph, who said her baby's official burial records were missing.
She worked on Joseph's behalf, contacting city officials who eventually granted Joseph access to the island.
She is also founder of The Hart Island Project, a nonprofit organization largely dedicated to informing the public of the island's inhabitants.
After submitting a series of Freedom of Information Act requests to the city, Hunt got her hands on thousands of the island's burial records and worked to create an online database.
City officials say they've tried to create a more official database for public users.
But until that happens, those like Joseph and New Jersey resident Lisa-Michele Russo have turned to Hunt and her website for help.
"It wasn't something that my parents liked to talk about," said the now 38-year-old Blairstown resident.
Using Anthony's death certificate, Hunt again petitioned city officials to arrange a visit to the island for the baby's now-adult sister.
"We do our best to accommodate every legitimate request," said Department of Correction spokeswoman Sharman Stein, who noted that in most cases, family members must first provide documentation proving that their loved ones are buried on the island before they visit.
"She is helping so many people and she doesn't know any of us," Russo said of Hunt.
Hunt, who sustains the Hart Island Project largely through donations and sales of her documentary and artwork, says she's recently received a grant from the state's Council on the Arts to create a "posthumous Wiki" -- a user-generated database of stories, photos and information about those on Hart Island.
Since her website launched in 2009, Hunt says, more than 2,000 people from around the world have registered to search for their lost friends and family members.