Real Madrid coach Jose Mourinho is the latest to add his voice to the deafening boom of dissent so often aimed at various men in black around the world.
The incident follows similar controversy in Britain where Manchester United's game against English title rivals Tottenham last month ended in farce when Mark Clattenburg allowed Portugal winger Nani to score despite his clear handball in the build-up.
De Oliveira did not see the incident, but noticed the ball was in the net, so consulted with her linesman and awarded a goal -- sparking scenes of mayhem as the Atletico players protested.
He had the chance to compound his error in time added on when he handed Simunic a third yellow card.
French referee Stephane Lannoy was left with egg on his face after allowing Luis Fabiano to clearly handle the ball twice before scoring his second goal in the 3-1 win over the Ivory Coast at the 2010 World Cup.
So I decided to have a talk with him, he said it was chest.
Lannoy had a nightmare match, later sending off Kaka for a second yellow card after Ivory Coast's Kader Keita went down in a heap following an innocuous collision with the Brazil playmaker.
The match official surprised everyone possessing a modicum of visual capacity when he awarded a spotkick despite having a clear view of Acuna's swan-dive, and the home team converted the penalty and went on to win 2-0.
Spohd said that Ahlenfelder initially denied drinking alcohol, but later admitted to consuming schnapps.
Mottram failed to award a goal when a shot by Dundee United's Patrick Connolly rebounded out of the net off a supporting stanchion and into the arms of a Partick Thistle player, who handed the ball to his goalkeeper.
Dundee won their match against Partick 4-0, but English second division side Watford were denied a victory in 2008 when opponents Reading were awarded a goal for a shot which did not go between the posts.
Clattenburg was suspended from refereeing for eight months from August 2008 following an investigation into his business activities, having been charged with a breach of contract by his ruling body, Professional Game Match Officials Limited.