But when Escobar learned that the baby's teenage mother had not been able to raise the money for treatment that would've saved his life, she was crushed.
I will never forget that," she said.
"It was agony," said Escobar.
In the last 10 years, her Juan Felipe Gomez Escobar Foundation -- named for her late son -- has brought health care to tens of thousands of children in Cartagena and provided more than 2,000 teenage mothers with counseling, education and job training.
She built a state-of-the-art neo-natal unit, brought in experts to train the clinic's staff and established a program to cover the medical costs for babies born to impoverished mothers.
... Next year, she's going to be pregnant again," Escobar said.
Escobar is hoping to change that through her teen mothers program, which aims to teach young women how to support themselves and their children.
With the opening of her foundation's new center last year, 400 pregnant teens and young mothers now enroll every year.
For the first year, young mothers come to the center every weekday, leaving their babies at the daycare while they attend classes.
Escobar says that many of the teens she's worked with have been victims of rape and sexual abuse, so counselors work intensively with each girl.
The center also teaches teenage mothers about reproductive health and contraception.
While the program aims to prevent future pregnancies, Escobar also wants to give these young mothers the tools they need to change their lives.
The program also helps mothers find jobs or provides them scholarships to help them continue their education at a trade school or university.
"I want my girls to be empowered," she said.
"I feel great, since I was able to accomplish a goal that I had wanted," Bautista said.
She said Escobar and the program gave her a new outlook on life.
...
"These teen mothers are my own daughters," Escobar said.
And she's planning to build an early childhood education center where the girls can bring their children ages 1-5.
"
Check out the Juan Felipe Gomez Escobar Foundation website at juanfe.org and see how to help.