(CNN) -- Finally, after days of listing on a disabled Carnival cruise ship without electricity and working toilets, thousands of passengers finished disembarking early Friday morning at the Port of Mobile.
The Carnival Triumph, became a major media story, when it caught fire off the coast of Mexico.
Family members cheered as the ship pulled in and in the crowd also was Carnival CEO Gerry Cahill.
"The hallways were toxic," said Reyes, who said she would never go on a Carnival cruise again.
It was horrible.
Despite the ordeal, many passengers had nothing but praise for the crew, saying they had worked long shifts to make sure their guests were as comfortable as possible.
"No power, no toilets, nothing.
U.S. Customs and Border Protection officials, Coast Guard members and a Carnival team boarded the ship before it arrived in port to help speed efforts to get passengers off as quickly as possible, he said.
Poret said toilets on the ship worked on and off, but were too inconsistent to trust.
It's running out of somebody's bathroom out into the hallway all the way across," he said.
The incident aboard the ship scared Poret's daughter and a friend taking the cruise with her, Poret said.
Aboard the cruise ship?
Carnival said it had reserved about 100 motor coaches, more than 1,500 New Orleans hotel rooms, multiple charter flights from New Orleans to Houston on Friday and transportation from Houston to the Port of Galveston so that guests may retrieve their cars if they drove to the port.
The cruise line said it would give each passenger $500, a free flight home, a full refund for their trip and for most expenses on board, as well as a credit for another cruise.
"The passengers on the ship aren't going to have a great deal of recourse when they get home," he said.
"It's a terrible sight, thinking of people trapped on a ship with limited food and filthy conditions, so I think people will think twice about taking a cruise," Clampet said.
In 2010, the Carnival cruise ship Splendor lost power after an engine room fire, leaving it drifting off the Pacific coast of Mexico.
CNN's Sandra Endo, Rich Phillips, Tom Watkins, Chandler Friedman, Victor Blackwell, Tristan Smith, Joe Sutton, Mike Ahlers, Dave Alsup, Sandra Endo, Chuck Johnston, Esprit Smith, Greg Botelho, Katia Hetter and Marnie Hunter contributed to this report.