Henryville, Indiana (CNN) -- Even as potent winds and heavy rains lingered in spots, residents through huge swaths of the eastern United States spent Saturday trying to come to grips with vicious storms that obliterated communities, reduced scores of homes to rubble and left at least 37 people dead.
The National Weather Service received two reports of tornadoes Saturday in Lanier County, which is about 30 miles north of the Florida border.
Meanwhile, residents from Alabama to Ohio spent Saturday trying to make sense of the chaos -- and right their lives -- after the previous day's devastating tornadoes.
Joe Sullivan, a National Weather Service meteorologist, said the tornado that swept through that and other Southern Indiana communities was an EF-4 -- meaning it had sustained winds of between 166 and 200 mph, putting it in the top 2% of all tornadoes in terms of strength.
The breadth of destruction left authorities, however, with "no idea how many people are homeless."
Wayne Hunter, 64, huddled under a blanket with his wife for safety in the middle of their one-story home -- as they'd done many other times -- when the tornado "hit head on," their daughter Pamela Rawlings told CNN on Saturday.
A 20-month-old girl was found alive, alone and injured in a field in Salem, about 20 miles south of Henryville, said Maj. Chuck Adams, a sheriff's department spokesman.
We praise God" that no one was hurt, said Glenn Riggs, the elementary school principal.
It was unclear how many people were missing in Henryville, as well as the towns of Chelsea, Paynesville and Marysville -- all hit by tornadoes -- because authorities are still trying to wrap their arms around the sheer amount of devastation, Adams said.
President Barack Obama talked Saturday with the governors of Indiana, Kentucky and Ohio to express his concerns, offer condolences for those killed and provide federal assistance if needed, the White House said in a statement.
Roughly 250 National Guard troops have been called in to provide aid and security in Henryville, Marysville and elsewhere, said Sgt.
Mike Lacy, with Morgan County's emergency management agency, reported that several people were rescued -- including one man trapped under up to 10 feet of debris -- though four died as a result of the storm across the county.
The National Weather Service later confirmed a tornado hit at least in Jackson, Putnam and Overton counties.
A tornado was believed to have struck north Georgia's Paulding County, damaging two elementary schools, a small local airfield and an undetermined number of homes, said Ashley Henson, a sheriff's spokesman.
"Thank goodness there were actually no injuries or fatalities reported in the Paulding County area," he said.
Around Charlotte, North Carolina, at least three people were injured, said Capt.
John Kasich said after touring damage in those and other nearby towns.
"We're going to get through it."
CNN's Joe Sutton, Susan Candiotti, Athena Jones, Eric Marrapodi, Moni Basu, Melanie Whitley, Kara Devlin, Maria P. White, Greg Botelho and Chelsea J. Carter contributed to this report.