Wednesday's violent clashes cap a months-long standoff between Thai authorities and protesters opposed to the government of Prime Minister Abhisit Vejjajiva.
The protesters -- known as the United Front for Democracy Against Dictatorship (UDD) -- support Thaksin Shinawatra, who was prime minister from 2001 to 2006, before he was ousted in a bloodless coup.
At least five people, including an Italian journalist, were listed as killed by the Police Hospital in Bangkok.
He said that the government had regained full control and that Red Shirt leaders had fled or had been taken into police custody.
"Negotiations failed because core (opposition) leaders are not able to make decisions by themselves," the statement said, alluding to an outside force influencing the protesters.
Those protesters donned yellow shirts (the color of the king) and occupied the two main airports in Bangkok, until finally the pro-Thaksin government was brought down by a court ruling.
But the rift is largely between the Red Shirts and the so-called "multi-colored shirts" (who support Abhisit, the current prime minister).
That was designed to show their allegiance to the king and more broadly the traditional elite which has dominated Thai politics for years.
Thaksin rode to power by enacting populist policies which gained huge support from the rural poor.
Finally, the army ousted Thaksin in a coup, which had the backing of the aristocratic elite and much of the middle class, who were becoming uneasy with the cult of personality growing around the leader.
From his self-imposed exile abroad to avoid a trial on corruption charges, Thaksin released a statement Wednesday saying that he was not the leader of the United Front for Democracy, the formal name of the Red Shirt opposition, and that their movement calling for new elections is not on his behalf.
What is not in dispute is that Thaksin won two elections, was the only Thai prime minister to serve a full-term in office and is still hugely popular.
Thaksin also faces other corruption charges.
More than $2 billion in Thaksin's family assets are currently frozen in Thailand, but there is speculation he has a great deal more money elsewhere.
"Due to escalating violence in central Bangkok, including gunfire near the U.S. Embassy, demonstrations in Chiang Mai, and other incidents throughout Thailand, U.S. citizens should defer all travel to Bangkok and defer all non-essential travel to the rest of Thailand," the U.S. State Department has warned.