One day after New York officials announced a Doctors Without Borders physician had tested positive for Ebola, another person who treated patients in West Africa developed a fever and was put in isolation at a northern New Jersey hospital.
For all the scares, only four people -- starting with Thomas Eric Duncan, a Liberian who died in a Dallas hospital, followed by two Dallas health care workers who'd treated him, lastly Spencer -- so far have been diagnosed with the deadly virus in the United States.
To this end,  the governors of New York and New Jersey announced Friday their states were stepping up airport screening for Ebola beyond federal requirements for travelers from Ebola-hit countries in West Africa.
A mandatory quarantine is called for those who had "direct contact with an individual infected with the Ebola virus,"  including medical workers who treated Ebola patients.
Meanwhile, there continues to intense interest about Spencer, including where he was, and what risk he might have posed, before getting hospitalized Thursday.
Up through that time, authorities said, Spencer limited his public interactions but did not eliminate them.
Bassett said the chances of anyone contracting the virus from contact with Spencer were "close to nil."
"There is no cause for alarm," Mayor Bill de Blasio said.
Spencer, employed at New York's Columbia Presbyterian Hospital, has been in isolation at Bellevue since emergency personnel took him there Thursday morning.
"He is a committed and responsible physician who always puts his patients first," the hospital statement said.
The doctor contacted Doctors Without Borders on Thursday to report a fever, the statement said.
Mark Levine, a city councilman who represents the doctor's Manhattan neighborhood, said Thursday, before news broke of the doctor's positive test, that city health department workers were canvassing the area, distributing information on the disease door-to-door, according to CNN affiliate WABC-TV.
Bellevue is designated for the "isolation, identification and treatment of potential Ebola patients" in the city, the statement said.
The United States is considering a mandatory quarantine for returning health care workers from West Africa, an Obama administration official said Friday.
On Friday, the National Institutes of Health said one of the nurses, Nina Pham, had been declared free of the Ebola virus.
The other nurse, Amber Vinson, who is getting treatment for Ebola at Atlanta's Emory University Hospital, is steadily regaining her strength, and her spirits are high, her family said.
In addition, all U.S.-bound passengers from Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea must land in one of the five U.S. airports with enhanced screening for Ebola: New York's Kennedy, Washington Dulles, New Jersey's Newark Liberty International, Chicago's O'Hare International and Hartsfield-Jackson International in Atlanta.