She shares what she's learned in an eventful life in her best-selling new book, "Letter to My Daughter."
In 166 pages, "Letter to My Daughter" distills stories from Angelou's life into universal lessons.
"Politicians must be told if they continue to sink into the mud of obscenity, they will proceed alone."
Maya Angelou: What I've encouraged voters to do is to vote for the person I am extolling, and also don't expect that if your man or woman gets in, that all things will be rectified immediately.
So because Obama gets in or McCain gets in, it's not going to be repaired overnight.
You have to get up off that sofa or off that couch and give something to the country -- even if it's one hour every other week to an old people's home -- I will read, go into the children's ward and read, or give to your church or your synagogue or your mosque.
If you will have a person enslaved, the first thing you must do is convince yourself that the person is subhuman.
The second thing you have to do is convince your allies so you'll have some help, and the third and probably unkindest cut of all is to convince that person that he or she is subhuman and deserves it.
Angelou: I think everybody would be weeping tears of joy really.
...
So I knew, because I told [people] that he did it, that my voice could just go out and kill people.
And she would start to brush my hair and she would say, "Sister, Mama don't care what these people say about you, that you must be an idiot, you must be a moron because you can't talk.
[Now] I teach all over the world, I teach in French and Spanish, so when I stand up on a stage or see a book of mine gets accolades or a piece of music I've written, I think about my Mama, and she died before I really came of age, and I just think she knew it.
Angelou: Yes, [she believed] it will get better.
CNN: What gave you the inspiration to call the book, "Letter to My Daughter," even though you don't have a daughter?
...
Angelou: I spoke to her about a week ago ... [During the primaries], a newspaper reporter said this proves that Oprah Winfrey doesn't listen to everything Maya Angelou says, because she was supporting Sen. Obama and I was supporting Sen. Clinton.
I do the same."
The primaries proved that Oprah had selected the one that most people wanted, so I went to Sen. Obama right after that.
Angelou: You need to know that you can go somewhere.
You need to know that you are in a continuum, and if you understand that, you realize that you are worthwhile.