This is providing a powerful opportunity for citizens to access critical information about their parliaments and to report on human rights violations, corruption and poor service delivery.
It has partnered with local organizations across Africa to build sites like Mzalendo in Kenya and Odekro in Ghana, which enable citizens to access information about parliamentary proceedings and their elected representatives, rate their MPs and gain a better understanding about government's inner workings.
A data repository has been created online, enabling journalists, analysts and campaigners to utilize this information to hold government to account and campaign for improved service delivery.
Utilizing the power of social media, this sparked more informed debates and dialogue that contributed to restoring order.
Across the continent, platforms are being developed that enable citizens to use SMS from basic phones to report challenges in service delivery.
CIPESA has created a platform populated with information on health programs being implemented in the region and citizen journalists are able to submit reports, photographs and audio footage describing the real situation on the ground, whilst Voluntary Sector Accountability Committees established by WOUGNET are utilizing a similar platform to report on corrupt practices and poor governance.
In many African countries, youth often feel excluded from the political process.
Map Kibera has equipped young activists with GPS-enabled phones and has supported them in creating a map of the region, part of a wider program that empowers youth to raise awareness of the challenges faced by their communities and advocate for change.
Technology applications can be developed anywhere and what's exciting about many of these initiatives is that they're being devised locally.
Homegrown solutions are often most effective, as local communities are best able to understand the complex local needs, behaviors and nuances.
However, when combined with well devised programs, their power to reach the previously unreachable and to bring the voices of citizens closer to government makes them a significant contributor to the process of ensuring that government's best serve the interests of their citizens.
The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Loren Treisman.