That means it's time to pack up the car and drive to wherever the leaves are changing colors.
That's a fine option.
Give the nature lovers some designated time to enjoy the leaves, then try something a little less organic.
This fall foliage giant has a state website dedicated to the changing leaves.
The compromise: Head to the nearby town of Belfast to enjoy a pint at Marshall Wharf Brewing Company on Belfast Harbor.
"Driving around the lake, you get to explore the quintessential towns of Wolfeboro and Meredith," says Jim Salge, Yankee magazine's fall foliage blogger.
The compromise: Head down the road to Gunstock Mountain Resort, where the resort's zipline tours can get your adrenaline going.
The compromise: The leaves are certainly not the main story at Gettysburg.
The changing colors of New Mexico's landscape are brilliantly captured by many of the artists who have called the state home.
Starting in October, the museum will host an exhibit showcasing O'Keeffe's depictions of Lake George (New York), where she had a rural retreat.
The compromise: Drive into the town of Blowing Rock for respite from the quiet of the leaves.
There's nothing like Glacier National Park for seeing nature at its wildest, and the trees on the Going-to-the-Sun Road are heading into full fall foliage splendor in late September.
Foodies will appreciate Kalispell's Festival of Flavors (September 19-28) and the nearby town of Whitefish celebrates German beer and food at its annual Great Northwest Oktoberfest (September 26 through October 5).
The compromise: After all that peeping, visitors can head to the town of Bishop to see how celebrated photographers Galen and Barbara Rowell see the landscape at Mountain Light Gallery.
Start in Burlington and head east toward Waterbury and Stowe, where you'll see good early fall color driving through the Champlain Valley (Interstate 89 or Route 2).
If that good weather continues next week, "that drive within an hour's radius of Ben & Jerry's will afford viewing opportunities of every stage of fall color."
Because it's Vermont, and we think you should soldier on a bit longer (you non-leaf fans), we add Snyder's extended tour: From Ben & Jerry's, take the classic foliage tour on Route 100 north up to Stowe, where the color is already more advanced.
Head up Route 108 through Smuggler's Notch, another fall favorite, to quickly spot more advanced color.