The short answer is that we got the films from the Nixon Library (which is part of the National Archives and Records Administration), and we didn't have to license them because they are in the public domain.
But how they ended up in the Nixon Library, why they are in the public domain, and what happened when we found out there were multiple copies of the whole collection (of widely varying quality!)
But the home movies took an unexpected path during the Watergate investigation, when the FBI confiscated the contents of Ehrlichman's office, including a box of a duplicate set (copies) of the home movies.
When Nixon resigned on August 9, 1974, he arranged to have his presidential papers sent to his home in San Clemente, California, assuming that they were his personal property.
Congress was concerned that Nixon would destroy papers relevant to the Watergate investigation, so it passed the Presidential Records and Materials Preservation Act of 1974 ("PRMPA"), 44 U.S.C.
The PRMPA authorized the administrator of General Services to take possession of and provide access to Nixon's presidential papers, including the secret White House tapes.
In 1980, Nixon filed an action for just compensation under the Takings Clause, which he eventually won, after more than a decade of litigation.Nixon v. U.S., 978 F.2d 1269 (1992).
As a result of the PRMPA, Nixon's presidential papers became the property of the United States and were deposited in the National Archives.
Under the PRMPA regulations, purely personal material was removed from the home movies and returned to Haldeman, Ehrlichman and Chapin.
Just hearing about them from Bill was enough to make us think there was a very special film in there, just waiting for someone to make it.
Since at the time the Nixon Library did not have a budget allocated to apply their standard 16mm inter-negative preservation technique to this collection, and since we desperately wanted to use it in our film, we proposed to pay for archival-quality digital scans.
We hired Jeff Kreines, inventor of the Kinetta film scanner, to travel to the Nixon Library and make the scans.