The Food and Drug Administration is making another attempt at regulating electronic cigarettes and other tobacco products.
Manufacturers would be required to register all their products and ingredients with the FDA.
After the public comment period, and once the proposed rules are finalized, manufacturers will have 24 months to submit applications to allow their products to remain on the market or to submit new product applications.
Because they have not been fully studied, the FDA says it's unknown what health risks they pose, how much nicotine or other chemicals are actually being inhaled, or whether there is any benefit to using them.
As electronic cigarettes have increased in popularity, so have the number of related calls to poison control centers nationwide.
They're coming in different sizes, shapes and flavors in terms of the nicotine in them, and there's very worrisome data that show that young people in particular are starting to take up e-cigarettes, especially the flavored ones -- and that might be a gateway to other harmful tobacco products."
But until we can really regulate them, we can't have all the information we need and we can't take all the actions that we might want to, to be able to best address the public health issues associated with them."
The company has nine products on the market, both disposable and rechargeable, but no flavored nicotine products.
But a lot of unanswered questions remain, according to Michael Eriksen, dean of the School of Public Health at Georgia State University, one of 14  U.S. institutions conducting FDA-funded research on electronic cigarettes.
"How concentrated is liquid nicotine?
But what precautions do consumers take when they put the nicotine vials in?
We're trying to help provide some of that information through research that we're conducting," she said.
If the FDA broadens its authority to regulate tobacco products, she said, it will make a major contribution to the health of Americans.
"This delay has had serious public health consequences as these unregulated tobacco products have been marketed using tactics and sweet flavors that appeal to kids, and their use has skyrocketed.