President Barack Obama didn't know the United States was collecting communications of allied leaders such as German Chancellor Angela Merkel, the chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee said on Monday.
The document says the Justice Department prepared a memorandum authorizing the program, which the document said fell legally within guidelines of another existing program under Section 215 of the Patriot Act.
Lawmakers were urged not to discuss the classified program for fear it would hurt national security, the documents show.
Spain became the latest to protest, summoning U.S. Ambssador James Costos for a Madrid meeting Monday to discuss an El Pais newspaper report that quoted unnamed sources as saying the NSA spied on Spanish officials and politicians.
Obama did not learn until recently of the NSA surveillance of other world leaders, including allies, a senior administration official told CNN on Monday.
Without confirming any of the news reports about alleged U.S. spying on foreign leaders, Carney also said that also was being addressed.
In particular, the official said the White House didn't learn of all of the surveillance programs until its internal review over the summer, after which some of them were stopped.
"I really doubt he had to sign off on something like that or get into the details," said a former senior administration official who worked on national security for the Obama White House.
Carney repeated Monday the White House line that Merkel was not being monitored now and would not be in the future -- without saying whether she had been targeted in the past.
Separately, the NSA on Sunday denied a report by the German newspaper Bild am Sonntag that NSA Director Keith Alexander told Obama about the surveillance of Merkel in 2010.
The Spanish newspaper El Mundo reported Monday that the NSA collected data from 60 million phone calls in Spain in one 30-day period.
The El Mundo article cited what it said was an NSA report titled, "Spain -- last 30 days."
"None of this has to do with terrorism," he said.
"Ultimately, the United States needs to balance the important role that these programs play in protecting our national security and protecting the security of our allies with legitimate privacy concerns."
The French daily newspaper Le Monde reported last week on claims that the NSA intercepted more than 70 million phone calls in France in 30 days.