(CNN) -- The primary joy of a bicycle is that, in its purest form, it's little more than a highly efficient way of walking.
Don't forget the anti-chafe cream.
The route includes three road passes of more than 5,000 meters (16,400 feet), with a lung-bursting maximum of 5,220 meters over the Gyatso La mountain pass, where the reward on a clear day is a distant view of Everest.
From the Pacific to Caribbean coasts, this one takes in mud paths, rainforest, coffee plantations, even an extinct volcano.
It can be completed in three days each November as part of the annual mountain bike race from which the ride takes its name.
And up and up -- the official La Ruta course includes about 3,000 meters (9,842 feet) of climbing on the first day alone.
The NSCR, which also goes by the slightly less evocative name of Euro Velo Route 12, is a Euroskeptic's nightmare -- an EU-funded epic across eight countries that claims to be the longest signposted cycle route in the world.
At a shade more than 64 kilometers (40 miles) this is perhaps the only route on this list on which riders could reasonably consider taking their kids the full length without worrying about a visit from social services.
Bikes can be hired at a series of points along the path.
Yes, there are tolls on the bridges for cyclists, but these are pretty small, more necessitating a pocket of change than a bank loan.
It's undeniably spectacular, taking in everything from woodland to mountains (did we forget to mention the Colorado Rockies?)
If that's not enough to think about, weather conditions mean the trip is only really feasible from June to September, and even then flash rains can make sections impassably muddy for weeks at a time.
The less ambitious can tackle smaller, less strenuous sections of just a day or more, and the official website gives updates on sometimes muddy trail conditions.
Riders tackling the entire route commit themselves to almost 4,300 meters (14,107 feet) of uphill pedaling.
Open to cyclists, walkers and horse riders, those on two wheels generally allow two or three days for the trip, and there are plenty of absurdly picturesque villages en route with pubs and guesthouses.
However CNN retains full editorial control over all of its reports.
Read the policy.