(CNN) -- Outside of the four grand slams, it's the most coveted title in men's tennis.
World No.1 Novak Djokovic will seek to top off an amazing season already bulging with three grand slam titles, while defending champion Federer is seeking a record sixth victory in the tournament.
Group A: Novak Djokovic, Andy Murray, David Ferrer, Tomas Berdych.
Rafael Nadal: The 10-time grand slam champion has never won this title, losing to Roger Federer in last year's final.
Andy Murray: Home favorite Murray has again missed out in the grand slams in 2011, losing in the final of the Australian Open to the all-conquering Djokovic and losing to Nadal in the semis at the French Open, Wimbledon and the U.S. Open.
5's best showing in the finals is a runner-up spot to Federer in the 2007 event in Shanghai.
Best known for reaching the 2010 Wimbledon final, this year Berdych has won the China Open title and beat Murray in November's Paris Masters quarterfinals before losing to Federer.
Jo-Wilfried Tsonga: The popular Frenchman beat Djokovic in his only other appearance in 2008, but still went out in the group stage.
Players gain points from playing in the four grand slams, ATP World Tour events including eight Masters Series tournaments, and World Group singles matches in the Davis Cup teams competition.
Players receive $120,000 for just qualifying, with $120,000 for each round-robin win.
1 ranking from Marat Safin of Russia when he beat American legend Andre Agassi in the final.
If players are tied on the same number of victories, then the total sets won decides -- if this is also equal then it goes down to total match points.
A rival tournament, the WCT Finals, was run by the World Championship Tennis Tour and continued to exist in tandem until 1989.
The Association of Tennis Professionals (ATP) took over the running of the men's tour from 1990 and the event evolved into the ATP Tour Championship, but the ITF promoted a rival Grand Slam Cup for the top-16 players with the best records in the four majors until 1999.