At least 37 hostages died in the terrorist seizure of a natural gas facility in eastern Algeria and the subsequent special forces assaults on it, the country's prime minister said Monday.
Those who have been identified include seven Japanese, six Filipinos, three Americans, three Britons and one Algerian, officials from those countries said.
After taking over, the well-armed militants planted explosives throughout the complex, Sallal said.
At one point, the militants tried to flee the compound in vehicles that carried explosives and three or four hostages as human shields, Sallal said.
Sallal said the terrorists had entered the country from northern Mali, where Malian and French authorities are battling Islamist rebels.
British Prime Minister David Cameron said Monday the effort to evacuate workers is complete and that U.K. officials are now focused on bringing the bodies of slain British hostages back home.
Algeria's status as Africa's largest natural gas producer and a major supplier of the product to Europe heightens its importance to those who want to invest there.
Energy and Mining Minister Youcef Yousfi, who a day earlier insisted Algeria can keep its gas facilities secure without foreign forces' help, said he believes the targeted gas facility will be back running "in the shortest possible time" and that foreign workers will soon return.
No known French hostages are unaccounted for, the defense ministry said.
Japanese Vice Foreign Minister Minoru Kiuchi and officials from JGC, a Yokohama-based engineering firm, saw and identified the bodies of seven Japanese citizens killed in the crisis, Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga announced late Monday.
Six Filipinos are confirmed dead and four are missing, the nation's foreign affairs ministry said.
Three British citizens were killed, the Foreign Office said Sunday.
U.S. State Department spokesman Victoria Nuland on Monday said three Americans had been killed and identified them as Victor Lynn Lovelady, Gordon Lee Rowan and Frederick Buttaccio, who had been previously identified.
Erin Lovelady described her father Victor, of Nederland, Texas, as a laid-back, understanding and loving man.
"I guess you can't really be secure any place."