Benghazi, Libya (CNN) -- Doctors at a field hospital in Martyrs Square in Zawiya said Friday that 17 people were killed and another 150 were wounded when government forces attacked the city.
By the end of the day, the situation was calm in the seaside city, they said.
He added that he had ordered an end to the violence there, but his order upset his security forces.
Zawiya's residents are free to do as they like, though there will be consequences, he said.
"If you want to pit against one another, then it's up to you," he said.
"Here, the authority is in the hands of the people.
"These acts cannot happen by Libyan men," he said.
Some of the people involved in the opposition, he said, were detained by the United States in Guantanamo.
We hear the bullets."
A formerly pro-government newspaper in Libya reported Thursday that African mercenaries were shooting at unarmed civilians in Tajura, about 25 miles east of Tripoli.
The woman said unarmed people had been fired on indiscriminately.
"We want to call all human beings: Zawiya is finished," she said.
"Where (are) the people?
CNN could not confirm reports for many areas in Libya.
Witnesses and reports also said the town of Az Zintan was under opposition control.
Gunfire erupted at dawn Thursday as chanting crowds dispersed.
"There's nobody walking in the street, nobody is trying to get out, even to look through the window," said a resident who, for security reasons, did not want to be identified.
Continuing a stream of defections among Libyan diplomats, the ambassador to Jordan, Mohammed Hassan Al Barghathi, said Thursday he was resigning because of the unrest.
The U.N. Security Council will meet privately at 3 p.m. Friday to discuss taking additional measures against Libya.
The resolution would condemn "the massive and unacceptable violence currently being perpetrated in this country," French Foreign Minister Michele Alliot-Marie said Thursday in a statement.
In Washington, a senior U.S. military official said the Pentagon was looking at "all options" it can offer President Barack Obama in dealing with the crisis.
"We will provide the president with options should he need them."