Bobby Jindal and New Jersey Gov.
Mitt Romney led the RGA in 2006 before his first presidential campaign, and Texas Gov.
Ultimately, both Jindal and Christie would each have a shot at running the RGA, Jindal in 2013 and Christie in 2014.
But before that line of succession was arranged, the tightly knit universe of GOP governors who comprise the RGA had to wrestle with an uncomfortable dilemma: Jindal and Christie were both gunning for the committee's top job in the same year -- 2014.
The question of who would run the show in 2014, Jindal or Christie, was complicated by the organization's lack of formal succession rules and Perry's unexpected resignation in late 2011 to run for president.
But that scenario did not sit well with Christie and his team of advisers for one glaring reason: He was up for re-election in 2013, making it next to impossible to run the party committee while also campaigning for his own job in New Jersey.
So with a flurry of phone calls and e-mails to his fellow governors, Christie charged ahead and launched a behind-the-scenes campaign to shake up the planned order of succession and take over the RGA in 2014, multiple Republican sources told CNN.
One senior Republican told CNN that the bout of campaigning was nothing more than "friendly competition" between the two governors.
One GOP operative familiar with the jockeying, however, said Jindal and his team were "a little frustrated" by Christie's attempt to pry away a job that the Louisiana governor thought was rightfully his.
Was it a good move by Christie?
It soon became clear, though, that "Christie had the votes," one person familiar with the whip effort told CNN, citing Christie's argument that it would be best for him to run the committee after securing re-election in New Jersey.
As the dust began to settle in early October, McDonnell managed to broker a deal in which Jindal would run the committee in 2013, with Wisconsin Gov.
Christie would take over the following year, with Jindal as vice-chair.
"Next year is a very important year for the RGA," Jindal told reporters in Arizona.