Mayflower, Arkansas (CNN) -- Janet Copeland and her husband, Richard, both say they agree almost all the time, with one exception: The Affordable Care Act, President Barack Obama's health care legislation.
We're in a little standoff about that one.
"
The group believes the ACA will help families from being priced out of health insurance coverage.
But Janet, who is quickly using up her life savings to pay her monthly health premium, is fully supportive of Obamacare, and supports Democratic President Barack Obama in his re-election bid.
But before they started a life together, Janet Copeland was married for almost 50 years.
"I held one job during my marriage, working as an art instructor," Janet says.
"Then I got married, and the whole thing changed," Janet says.
She couldn't qualify for Medicaid, the government's health care program for the poor, because she had to count Richard's retirement income of about $2000 per month.
What's important about Janet Copeland's story, says Anthony Wright, is that it illustrates how routine life changes can dramatically change individual health care costs.
"A family's health insurance rate can change for a variety of reasons, both a birth in the family, a death in the family, a divorce," says Wright.
In the most general terms, Wright says, Obama's signature health care law makes it harder to increase rates for routine life changes, while GOP candidate Mitt Romney wants to repeal that law entirely.
Wright says Janet Copeland could benefit from some of the provisions of the Affordable Health Care act, like the expansion of Medicaid.
Those are the provisions most likely to help Janet Copeland lower her Medicare premiums.
Perry, like Richard Copeland, also disagrees with the health care law on philosophical grounds.
Now that the U.S. Supreme Court has ruled Obamacare is constitutional, Anthony Wright of Health Access says the outcome of this presidential election will determine whether the law is ultimately fully enforced.
See all of the Embed America coverage here.