As men's college basketball comes to a close with the last game April 6, fans are anxiously watching to see who will claim victory in this year's national championship game.
1.
Duke University in Durham, North Carolina, and the University of North Carolina in Chapel Hill
At Duke University -- seeded No.
About a 20-minute drive from Durham is the historic town of Chapel Hill, home to the University of North Carolina, which was seeded No.
It is also the college team of professional basketball legend Michael Jordan.
If visitors can't get one of the coveted tickets to watch the game in the Dean E. Smith Center, aka the Dean Dome, there is plenty to do in the quaint city of Chapel Hill.
2.
3-seeded team this year, one must make a trip to Allen Fieldhouse in Lawrence, Kansas.
The museum, which opened about three years ago, houses artifacts and information about the history of KU athletics, including the men's basketball team.
When Kansas beat Memphis to clinch the national championship last year, more than 100,000 fans poured into the street, university officials say.
3.
Despite this, college basketball in Bloomington, Indiana, remains sacred, devout Hoosiers fans say, and they believe that the men's team will be back in full force over the next few years.
Officials at Bloomington Indiana Visitors & Convention Bureau say basketball game days flood local restaurants and bars with students and local fans.
"Basketball is a religion in this state," said Zach Osterman, the men's basketball columnist at the university's student newspaper, the Indiana Daily Student.
4.
"It's such a great feeling to know you can walk anywhere in the city when you have a Marquette shirt on a basketball day and people will talk to you about basketball," said Sarah Dembkowski, a sophomore at the university.
6-seeded Golden Eagles lost to the University of Missouri in the tournament last week, a trip to the Bradley Center, where the Marquette men's basketball team plays (and where the NBA's Milwaukee Bucks play) is well worth the visit.
5.
Gonzaga University officials call it the "Gonzaga Effect": This small private school in Spokane, Washington, has qualified for the NCAA tournament for the 11th straight year.
Visitors will be delighted to watch the games in the school's arena, the $25 million McCarthey Athletic Center, which opened in 2004.
Before the opening, the basketball team was playing in a glorified high school gym, university officials said.
A single event will probably bring in $2.75 million, according to the Spokane Regional Convention & Visitors Bureau.