(CNN) -- You would think that a black man born and raised in Georgia, who was a teenager during the civil rights movement, would understand the transition of African-Americans from voting overwhelmingly Republican to strongly supporting the Democratic Party.
According to the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies, a think tank focused on African-American issues, in the aftermath of the Emancipation Proclamation, black folks who could vote in the United States quickly joined the Republican Party out of affection for President Abraham Lincoln.
Check the political party affiliation of blacks elected during the period of Reconstruction and you will see a lot of R's after their names.
Moderate Republicans played a crucial role in getting the Civil Rights Act passed, yet as the GOP began to go against civil rights, the national Democratic Party saw a chance to solidify the black vote.
The Southern Strategy became the go-to play for Republicans over the next 40 years, as they virtually ignored the interests of black voters and catered to a largely white party.
What is so shameful and asinine about Cain's "brainwashing " comment is that he assumes that African-Americans aren't smart and sophisticated enough to make their own choices.
Mostly red states.
So if the talking points suggest the Democrats advance poverty programs more than the GOP; push for more funding for education; and want a strong health care program, then why are these white voters in these mostly red states voting for the GOP?
The GOP has no real plan to even talk to black voters.
We care about housing, economic development, education, any host of issues.
West sat in my studio and told his press secretary to send an e-mail to every GOP press secretary in the House to tell them that my show was a great forum for them to talk to Black America.
Steele told me he went to the GOP House and Senate leadership to tell them they should accept my invites, but none did.
But doing nothing will get you nowhere, other than guarantee that a strong voting bloc will do all it can to make sure you are defeated at the polls.