"I grew up in rural Alabama, in a poor area of the state," the three-term Republican noted during a recent interview in his Washington office.
Specifically, he argued that in granting work authorization for millions of undocumented men and women over the next decade and beyond, the bill will benefit corporate titans by flooding the labor market and holding down stagnant salaries in an already weak economy.
"My Republican colleagues seem to be oblivious to the free market," Sessions said.
He is by far the Senate's toughest critic of the bill -- crafted by four Democratic and four Republican colleagues -- as it winds its way through the Democratic-controlled Senate.
Sessions is not new to this debate.
"When President Bush said that there were certain jobs Americans won't do, I consider it to be one of the greatest errors in his entire presidency," Sessions said.
And we need their salaries going up."
Some immigration reform proponents insist there's no way to truly lock the border down if there's a strong enough economic incentive to come to United States.
"A nation that pretends to have a lawful system of immigration has to be willing to execute that," Sessions said, noting that bitter opposition of the ICE agents' union to the "Gang of Eight" bill.
The panel's 10 Democrats were joined by Republicans Jeff Flake of Arizona and Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, both members of the "Gang of Eight."
"Everybody needs to know it -- who's calling the shots," Sessions said at one recent committee meeting.
"I will not support citizenship for people who entered the country illegally," Sessions said.
"Given the politics of Alabama, it doesn't surprise me at all," said Richard Fording, chairman of the University of Alabama's political science department.
"There's nothing for Sessions to lose and maybe lots to gain" in opposing the "Gang of Eight" bill, Fording said.
As a result, he says, the bill was written by big labor and business interests.
"The political consultants and pollsters and people (managing the bill) ... anticipated everything that was going to occur," he declared.
"I believe that, politically, at this point in time we should serve and listen to the concerns of the working Americans who are making $20,000 to $45,000 a year," Sessions said.
And so, if we end the illegality with a good, principled immigration bill, (if) we allow a generous but responsible flow of immigrants in the future, and if we improve the lives of working Americans, then that's the way you win elections."