Soma, Turkey (CNN) -- The search for victims of this week's coal mine fire in Turkey is now over, with a final death toll of 301, Turkish government officials said Saturday.
On Friday, police in the western city used tear gas, plastic pellets and a water cannon on protesters angered by the government's response.
Lawyers' representatives told Turkish broadcaster DHA that eight lawyers and 25 other citizens were detained Saturday.
But he told reporters that the authorities took the decision Friday to ban rallies and demonstrations in Soma in order to maintain peace and security.
Then video taken on the same day in Soma showed Erdogan telling a man "don't be nasty," according to the footage aired Friday by DHA.
If you boo the country's prime minister, you get slapped," Erdogan is heard saying.
In addition, a photograph surfaced Wednesday of an aide to Erdogan kicking a protester, an image that quickly became a symbol of the anger felt by many against the government, and amid mounting questions over safety practices at the mine.
Huseyin Celik, a spokesman for the ruling Justice and Development Party, or AKP, dismissed the grocery store incident and said the image of the aide, Yusuf Yerkel, kicking the protester was misleading.
Site manager Akin Celik told reporters that the mine had closed one emergency refuge when excavation work moved to a lower area.
Asked about that issue, Minister of Labor and Social Security Faruk Celik defended Turkey's workplace safety act and said it was set up within the framework of EU regulations, according to CNN Turk.
he said.
Asked what had happened, he said, "We don't know either.
Hundreds have also taken to the streets this week in anti-government protests in Istanbul and Ankara, with police answering, in some cases, with water cannons and tear gas.
"Everybody knows that our Prime Minister is always with the people, and always feels the pain of the people.
President Abdullah Gul, speaking as he visited Soma on Thursday, said he was sure the investigation already begun would "shed light" on what regulations are needed.
CNN's Diana Magnay, Talia Kayali and Ben Brumfield contributed to this report.