CARL AZUZ, CNN STUDENT NEWS ANCHOR: The start of a new month, the start of a new day of CNN Student News!
During the first quarter -- the first three months -- of 2011, home prices dropped more than 5 percent from where they were last year.
Home prices are down; so what?
Home prices affect a lot of other industries -- like banks, like construction -- so that's one of the big indicators that experts use to figure out how the U.S. economy is doing.
And one expert says it doesn't look like that's going to change any time soon.
That's a bacteria that can be transmitted through contaminated food or water, especially raw vegetables.
They think it could be traced back to produce from Spain.
STAN CASE, CNN STUDENT NEWS: Time for the Shoutout!
You've got three seconds -- GO!
AZUZ: The World Health Organization says that radiation from cell phones could possibly cause cancer.
One expert says it's hard because it can take several decades of exposure to see if there are any consequences.
AZUZ: Recovery efforts are getting started in Joplin, Missouri, and help is coming from some unexpected places.
Many residents of Joplin are still coming to grips with the devastation that hit their hometown.
MORGAN SCHUTTERS, KODE REPORTER: Katie Wood graduated from Joplin High School just an hour before the tornado hit.
SCHUTTERS: But Joplin High School sophomore Chanci McGowen still has the rest of her high school career ahead of her, as she looks at what is left in shambles.
SCHUTTERS: McGowen is one of many students who lost both.
Eight people in the Joplin R-8 School District are confirmed dead: seven students and one staff member.
I.D.
Me
AZUZ: The Grand Canyon's a major vacation destination.
The nearly 5 million people who go there every year prove that.
Not for most American workers, who lag behind international counterparts in the vacation time given and the time taken.
According to a survey by Expedia, workers in Great Britain got an average of 28 days' vacation last year.
With the economy still recovering, some workers are just happy to have a job to go to every day.
We're afraid of the work that's waiting for us when we get back from vacation.
According to a new survey, one out of every five people in the United States would fail a driving test if they had to take one today.
Last year, 38 million people -- one million more -- would have failed.
AZUZ: Teachers, we know a lot of you get our daily e-mail.
We'll only send you something when we have something to say, like when one of our special summer shows goes up at CNNStudentNews.com.
AZUZ: Before we go, we're checking out a barnyard brawl.
I mean, you might try, but you know they wouldn't go for it.
AZUZ: Those guys just look like they have baaaaad attitudes.
For CNN Student News, I'm Carl Azuz.