Davos, Switzerland (CNN) -- Free trade, transparency and a crackdown on tax cheats will be at the heart of Britain's G8 presidency, Prime Minister David Cameron told the World Economic Forum in Davos on Thursday as he set out his vision for a more competitive Europe.
Cameron said the European Union and the G8 -- made up of Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Russia, Britain and the United States -- all face the "looming, insistent question" of how to compete and succeed in the global economic race.
He wants Britain to be outward-looking, Cameron said, as he insisted that his referendum promise was "not about turning our backs on Europe" but about making the 27-member bloc work for everyone.
"It's really important that we've set out a plan for how we get change in Europe that will benefit all of Europe, making it more open, more competitive, more flexible, and how we secure Britain's place within that," he said.
Britain's desire to renegotiate the terms of its EU membership is based on the need to gain the consent of the people as they follow a path within Europe, he said.
It's not the only way that you will get growth; it is part of what we need to bring the world economy back to healthy growth."
Addressing policymakers in Davos, Cameron said the questions of fairer taxes, more open trade and greater transparency apply just as much to the developed countries of the G8 as to poorer nations.
Meanwhile, transparency about the flow of money is key to poorer countries moving from poverty to growth, Cameron said.
On Wednesday, Cameron promised that if his party wins the 2015 general election, the country would get to vote on whether Britain stays in the European Union on the basis of a renegotiated deal, or leaves.
But critics -- including his party's coalition partner, the Liberal Democrats -- say now is not the time to create uncertainty among businesses and industry over Britain's future in the European Union.
"I am confident that if there is to be a referendum one day, the UK citizens will decide to stay in the EU and contribute to shape its future," he said.
Britain is a net contributor to the European Union and an important player in the single market, which may give Cameron some additional sway.