(MentalFloss.com) -- As Napoleon Bonaparte expanded his new French Empire and conquered much of Western Europe, he doled out the spoils of war to his friends and family, whether they wanted it or not.
Joseph suffered a string of defeats as he and French forces engaged what was left of the Spanish regular army, and he asked his brother if he could abdicate and return to Naples.
He eventually moved to a large estate in Bordentown, New Jersey, twenty-five miles northeast of Philadelphia along the Delaware River.
There, Joseph Bonaparte, former King of Naples and Spain, brother of Napoleon I, Emperor of France, took the title of Comte de Survilliers (though his American neighbors and friends still called him Mr. Bonaparte and referred to his home as "Bonaparte's Park") and went into quiet, suburban exile.
Bonaparte's home became a social hub for both his New Jersey neighbors, who liked to spend quiet afternoons browsing his library, and American and European elites.
Since Bonaparte's wife did not accompany him to America (he did not see her for 25 years after he left), another frequent guest at the house was his mistress, Annette Savage.
"All the furniture, statues, pictures, money, plate gold, jewels, linen, books, and in short, everything that was not consumed, has been most scrupulously delivered into the hands of the people of my house.
Bonaparte rebuilt his mansion and remained in New Jersey.
During his years at Point Breeze, Bonaparte believed he had a run-in with one of the Garden State's most infamous residents -- the Jersey Devil.
"Let it be the Devil," she cried as she pushed the baby out.
As Bonaparte recounted the story, he was hunting alone in the woods near his estate when he saw some peculiar tracks on the ground.
It had a long neck, wings, legs like a crane with horse's hooves at the end, stumpy arms with paws and a face like a horse or a camel.
Until he returned to Europe, Bonaparte is said to have kept a sharp eye out for the Devil whenever he was in the woods, hoping to kill it and take the body as a trophy.
Napoleon's younger brother, Jérôme, visited the United States in 1803 and fell in love with Elisabeth Patterson, the daughter of a wealthy Baltimore merchant.
She was already pregnant when Jérôme left the U.S. and gave birth to another American Bonaparte.
All rights reserved.