(CNN) -- A Somali Islamist militant movement on Monday claimed responsibility for a trio of bombings that killed at least 74 people Sunday at two venues in the Ugandan capital, Kampala, where crowds had gathered to watch the World Cup final.
"We are behind the attack because we are at war with them," Al-Shabaab spokesman Ali Mohamoud Rage told reporters at a news conference in Mogadishu, Somalia.
However, Police Chief Maj. Gen. Kale Kayihura told reporters arrests have been made in connection with the bombings.
Earlier Monday, Sheikh Abu Al Zubeir, identified as "the emir of Al-Shabaab in Somalia," said in an Arabic website posting, "My message to the Ugandan and Burundian nations is that you will be the target for our retribution to the massacres perpetrated against the Somali men, women and children in Mogadishu by your forces."
Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni declared a week of national mourning for victims of the bombings, beginning Tuesday, according to a government statement.
Eighty-five people were injured in the Ugandan blasts, Kayihura told reporters.
The 74 fatalities included 28 Ugandans, one Irish citizen, one Indian, one American and 11 people who are either Ethiopian or Eritrean, according to the Ugandan government.
said Museveni, who on Monday visited a rugby sports center where two of the blasts occurred Sunday.
The U.S. Embassy confirmed the death of one American.
In a post on its website, the organization Invisible Children said Henn was in the country working with Ugandan students.
U.S. State Department spokesman P.J.
"I'm told the FBI will assist in the investigation of the bombings."
"The fact that the victims were enjoying the World Cup reveals the evil and ugly nature of the perpetrators and the need to uproot from [the] region those who do not value the sanctity of human life," the statement said.
Stone Atwine was watching the game at the rugby center when the blast occurred.
"At that point, we ran off.
"I was watching the game with my brother at the rugby center," said Ian Lule, who was among a group gathered at a city hospital.
Muhumuza said when the game ended, he went to the rugby center.
"During the World Cup, the world should have been touched by the emotions of football.
All the church members were accounted for and families had been contacted, Kind said.
Kayihura said the bombings could have been avoided if the two venues had used security measures such as metal detectors and guards.