Gaza City (CNN) -- After eight days of bone-shattering bombardment, Gaza was calm Thursday and Friday as residents of this battered land sought to return to their daily lives.
In Gaza City, thousands of people took part in a celebration that was not so much of a military victory as a psychological one.
Hamas has also shown that its rockets have improved and that it is not as vulnerable to Israeli airstrikes as it was during the "Cast Lead" Operation four years ago, when more than 1,400 Palestinians were killed.
Netanyahu, who is looking forward to elections in January, also showed himself to be an effective military leader.
Palestinian leaders sought to cast the cease-fire as a catalyst toward uniting their divided factions, while Israelis said they were happy for quiet after the shelling and counterstrikes.
Haniyeh, who heads the governing party of Gaza, said the cease-fire showed the United States had been forced to soften its stance in the region in the wake of the Arab Spring.
At least six Israelis were killed, including a soldier who died Thursday of wounds suffered Wednesday just before the cease-fire took hold, the Israel Defense Forces said.
The truce negotiated by Egyptian President Mohamed Morsy followed a visit to the region by U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and a series of phone calls from U.S. President Barack Obama to the main players.
But it minced no words about the victims.
Hamas' military wing, the al Qassam brigade, said it fired 1,573 rockets toward Israel during the hostilities, including three shot toward Jerusalem.
A spokesman for Netanyahu told CNN on Thursday that Hamas' stance toward Israel harms the ability to negotiate.
At the same time, Regev said Israel has called on Palestinian leaders to restart peace talks and was hoping for a positive response soon.
The agreement calls for both sides to move toward opening border crossings to facilitate the movement of people and goods.
Since the cease-fire was declared, three rockets have been launched from Gaza into Israel, the IDF said Thursday.
It also calls for the Palestinian factions to cease all hostilities from Gaza against Israel, including the firing of rockets and border attacks.
"For us, that's victory.
Israel said its intent was to end rocket attacks on southern Israel from inside Gaza by degrading Palestinian capabilities.