(CNN) -- In summer 2010, Big Sky High School graduate and football star Glen Maricelli began a grueling 2,170-mile drive from Missoula, Montana, for a collegiate tryout in Marietta, Georgia.
An hour after that, Maricelli was trying out for the Running Eagles squad, sprinting for fitness tests in the sweltering Georgia summer heat.
That was good.'
The sport became his passion, so he put his football days behind him and looked for a college rugby program.
It takes the air out of the room," University of California head rugby coach Jack Clark said.
It's the simple act of stumbling upon a practice, catching a rare match on TV or tossing a rugby ball around that draws people away from the ingrained mentality of American football.
"Historically, rugby players have been 'field gypsies,' " said Rod Seddon, president of the Georgia Rugby Union.
One Thursday when he was 19, Thomas stepped on a rugby pitch for the first time.
"It's driven to not just be a team on the field but off the field that I really like," Thomas said.
Cameron Nizdil, a 20-year-old sophomore from Moorpark, California, was offered a walk-on spot on UGA's track and field team.
Collegiate rugby teams often comprise powerful athletes, football and basketball players who entertained rugby as a third sport in high school.
Each one has the chance to sprint, pass and tackle, and a successful tackle won't stop the action.
"Unlike football, we don't want guys to travel for a weekend just to sit on the sidelines," said Rene Daniel, a rugby coach at Georgia Tech.
In rugby, it's you against seven or 15 other guys.
In June, the recent University of California-Berkeley graduate helped the national rugby team, the USA Eagles, defeat Russia for the Churchill Cup Bowl, an annual rugby union tournament leading up to the World Cup.
Scully discovered rugby in college under the tutelage of American rugby legend Jack Clark, head coach of the Golden Bears.
"
Rugby is a true battle on the field, from the bloodied players who forge on without stopping to the one missed tackle that can cost the game in a breathless contest.
It is a game driven by respect, because each player knows what another has gone through to be on the field.
"There's nothing like giving 80 minutes on a Saturday to the game that you love," Burgess said.
"You're with 14 other guys in the arena against 15 guys that you're trying to beat the hell out of.