(CNN) -- Danielle Jackson still remembers the day she discovered her own mother could be her own worst enemy.
It was hurtful," said Danielle, who remembers thinking that her co-workers at the bank must wonder how a mother could steal her child's money.
What sometimes happens next, but you don't hear about as often, is that many of those mothers demand their children care for them, even after they stopped caring for their children.
"Those mothers can have many needs themselves, and the one person who can fulfill those needs is that child," says Alicia Salzer, a psychiatrist and the author of "Back to Life: Getting Past Your Past With Resilience, Strength, and Optimism," a book about how people can overcome trauma.
Even as she struggled to find baby-sitting and juggle her schoolwork, her mother treated her like a renter, expressing jealousy that Mia was getting to go to school.
One day when Terry was in high school, she came home to discover her mother had gone to live with her boyfriend.
"To these girls, normal is something that looks like a Disney film," says Salzer.
A common thread in such relationships, says Salzer, is substance abuse, because it gives the mother something in her life that overshadows her children, blurs judgment and creates need.
"Being honest with you, I told Danielle I didn't want her even when I was pregnant, but I'm glad I didn't get rid of her.
Danielle ended up living with her grandmother, where she thrived and became a good student.
Danielle went to college; her mother went to jail.
"I thought this would bring my mother and I together, but all she did was cry and cry," Danielle remembers.
Danielle paid a fine.
She took care of me," she said.
She didn't give me up for adoption," said Danielle.
My husband and I started the Soledad O'Brien Brad Raymond Foundation two years ago to help promising girls who were future leaders.
We sent Danielle back to college and assigned a mentor to help her navigate her upside-down relationship with her mother.
Like she is a teenager, and at some point I moved past her and became an adult," said Danielle.
Salzer says it's naive for women such as Danielle to believe their moms will ever just go away, but they can learn to negotiate and set limits.
"Who runs out in the middle of the night with someone else's debit card to get cash if they're not using drugs?"
she asked.