"It wasn't like a kaleidoscope -- there was no color, it was all black and white," Lutz Pfannenstiel tells CNN, recalling the moment 12 years ago when his life flashed before his eyes, the former goalkeeper suffering an injury which led the club's physio at Bradford Park Avenue to think the German was dead.
"In the background there were figures but I couldn't make out who they were.
Raging at the abandonment of the game, in which his team was leading, he was back training within a week.
In South Africa, Pfannenstiel became a folk hero with Orlando Pirates in Johannesburg, his fame even persuading one would be gun toting assailant to apologize for inconveniencing the German as he visited the corner shop for a bottle of water.
At the time the German was enjoying life, modeling for Armani and presenting his football highlights show, but he was then found guilty of match fixing and sentenced to 101 days in prison.
People got hung.
If it was for 101 days, it felt like 25 years."
Now Pfannenstiel hopes to take his football friends, who play in games to raise money, to Antarctica and bring attention to the effects of climate change.
"Within 10 minutes, the nets and lines are gone and nothing will be left.
Having grown up in the Bavarian forests of Germany, Pfannenstiel has always been passionate about the environment.
"Now it's not like that.
Pfannenstiel has already helped raise awareness of the effects of the climate change by spending a week living in an igloo -- a feat which was streamed online.
"If you go to the Maldives, you know that they will be gone in 10-15 years because they'll sink.
It's not just the environment which Pfannenstiel is passionate about -- he loves animals too.
"I saw this penguin and I got so curious and I just adopted him as a pet," laughs Pfannenstiel.
When not kidnapping penguins or looking to save the world, Pfannenstiel spends his time working for German football Bundesliga club 1899 Hoffenheim.
"I've had to fight for everything since leaving prison," he said.
I didn't have that much money -- all I had was a pair of flip flops, a pair of shorts, a T-shirt and a bag full of debts.