(CNN) -- Gore Vidal, the eclectic author who faithfully chronicled the major shifts and upheavals in the United States in books, essays and plays, has died.
Widely hailed as one of America's greatest men of letters, the aristocratic Vidal was a high-profile commentator on politics, including his bitter opposition to the war in Iraq and his belief that the United States had betrayed its humble roots to become an imperial power.
Vidal also appeared in a number of films, including the political satire, "Bob Roberts," where he played a U.S. senator.
The more they communicated, the more impressed he was by McVeigh, Vidal said.
His book "Perpetual War for Perpetual Peace: How We Got to Be So Hated" takes the position that both attacks were provoked by "our government's reckless assaults upon other societies."
Vidal "was always a gadfly," Bram said.
To be fair, Vidal had called him a "crypto-Nazi" first.
... And because I'm a writer, people think that I'm this poor little fragile thing.
He was born Eugene Luther Gore Vidal on October 3, 1925.
His father, Eugene, played professional football, competed in the decathlon in the Antwerp Olympics in 1920 and, as an aviator, was instrumental in expanding the U.S. aeronautics program.
From the congressional record, from American history, poetry," Vidal said.
It was well-received.
As a result of the controversy, "He backed away from the subject for a while," said Bram, who teaches English at New York University.
"
Following his lucrative TV stint, Vidal returned to writing and produced three widely acclaimed novels that cemented his reputation as an internationally best-selling author: "Julian" (1964), about the Roman emperor who wanted to restore paganism; "Washington, D.C." (1967), the first of his fictional chronicles of American history; and "Myra Breckinridge" (1968), a satirical treatise on transsexualism.
"I would say that since 1945, the United States, which was absolutely the 'mandate of heaven,' as Confucius would say, had fallen upon us," he told CNN in 2007.
Vidal said in the CNN interview that he wanted to be cremated and then have his ashes placed at Rockcreek Cemetery in Washington.
"We share a plot, and I'll be there," Vidal said.
Please share with us in the comments below.