President Barack Obama said Tuesday that he didn't know if what he called an interim agreement with Iran could be reached, but he said the goal was to ensure Iran gave up any ambitions to develop nuclear weapons.
In a sign of the level of disconnect, the two countries were unable to agree on when Kerry would next travel to Israel for talks with Netanyahu on the Iranian issue.
The international community led by Israel, the United States, France and others demands that Tehran dismantle its ability to enrich uranium and other technology needed to develop nuclear weapons.
In the CNN interview Sunday, Netanyahu made clear he opposes lifting some sanctions now -- as called for under the agreement being negotiated -- without getting further concessions to ensure Iran would be unable to continue with uranium enrichment and other steps.
On Tuesday, a bipartisan group of six senators urged the administration to reject the proposed deal with Iran under discussion and only accept an agreement that better dismantles Iran's ability to develop nuclear weapons.
The interim deal under discussion in Geneva would "open up the spigot a little bit" on some of the frozen revenue while leaving in place the bulk of the most effective sanctions involving Iranian oil exports and banking, he said.
At the White House, spokesman Jay Carney said Tuesday that "no daylight" exists between the United States and Israel on the end goal of preventing Iran from developing nuclear weapons.
Iran says it has the right to enrich its own uranium, while the United States and its allies reject enrichment as a right of nations.
I think you had some folks in the room who were very unsatisfied," Corker said, adding that any Senate action on additional sanctions or other measures involving Iran would occur only after the coming Thanksgiving break.
Last week, Kerry told a Senate panel that new sanctions imposed on Iran by Congress now "could be viewed as bad faith" in the negotiations.
"The Prime Minister underlined the necessity of Iran comprehensively addressing the concerns of the international community about their nuclear program, including the need for greater transparency" the spokesman said.
CNN's Elise Labott, Jim Acosta, Jill Dougherty, Jason Seher, Ted Barrett, Jamie Crawford, Gabe LaMonica, Virginia Nicolaidis and Greg Botelho contributed to this report.