New York (CNN) -- A day after saying homosexuality is not "an equally valid or successful option," New York gubernatorial candidate Carl Paladino denied being anti-gay Monday but said it was "disgusting" that his opponent took his children to a gay pride parade.
And any father who would take his children to such things, is not really thinking of the fatherly responsibilities -- is more interested in politics," Paladino told CNN at the Columbus Day Parade in New York City.
"When I talk about issues such as this, I talk from my heart," he told NBC, "and I expect that the press will properly interpret my remarks.
Asked whether he believes homosexuality is a choice, Paladino said, "I've had difficulty with that.
He said his Sunday remarks were taken out of context.
Paladino emphasized in a statement Sunday night that he did not include those lines when he delivered his remarks, and said Monday he had crossed them out from his prepared remarks.
Paladino at first suggested to "Today" that the lines were written by members of the Jewish group he was speaking to, although he later said he wasn't sure whether they originated with a group member or one of his staff.
Paladino told CNN he didn't know who wrote the remarks.
I don't think they should be married," he told CNN.
"Don't misquote me as wanting to hurt homosexual people in any way," Paladino said Sunday.
"I just think my children and your children would be much better off and much more successful getting married and raising a family," he said.
Paladino also criticized Cuomo for marching in New York's gay pride parade in June.
New York "celebrates our diversity" with festivities such as the Columbus Day parade and the gay rights parade, he said.
Gay rights groups also criticized Paladino's remarks.
"I think gay men and women -- my neighbors and your neighbors -- would be much better off and much more successful if they were allowed equal rights and the option of getting married and raising a family.
It isn't."
"You send another goon to my daughter's house, and I'll take you out, buddy," Paladino said, apparently referring to the Post's coverage of a daughter the candidate had out of wedlock.
I may not always say things in the most delicate or diplomatic way, but I will always tell you the truth and the truth is New York State is in a death spiral."