U.S. veterans are dying because of delays in diagnosis and treatment at VA hospitals.
Barry Coates is one of the veterans who has suffered from a delay in care.
"The problem was getting worse and I was having more pain," Coates said, talking about one specific VA doctor who he saw every few months.
"I had already been in pain and suffering from this problem for over six months and it wasn't getting better," Coates said.
He was finally told he could have a colonoscopy, many months later.
"
Some of the people responsible may have even received bonuses in recent years for their work, despite the delays in care or treatment for the veterans.
In the Florida region, five veterans are dead, and 14 vets or their families were sent the disclosures, notified that they suffered "adverse events" because of delayed or denied care or diagnosis, according to the exclusive document.
In the Texas region, seven vets or their families were sent disclosures about adverse events and serious injuries suffered because of delayed care.
As CNN has previously reported,  as many as 7,000 veterans were on a backlog list -- waiting too long for colonscopies or endoscopies -- at VA facilities in Columbia, South Carolina and Augusta, Georgia.
The VA said the backlog at those two hospitals has been solved, but that is not a good enough explanation for Rep. Jeff Miller, the chair of the House Veterans Affairs Committee.
Even with the delays in care which have led to deaths and serious injuries, the congressman said not a single person has been fired or even demoted, and in fact some of those responsible may have even gotten bonuses.
"That's why we asked the question again today, with members of the South Carolina delegation and Georgia delegation, tell us exactly who was disciplined and how.
...There were many people involved' "  said Miller.
The VA did issue a written statement from Dr. Robert Petzel, the Under Secretary for Health at the department of Veterans Affairs.
We take seriously any issue that occurs at any one of the more than 1,700 VA health care facilities across the country."
"No veteran should have to fill out a 23-page claim to get care, or wait months -- even years -- to get an appointment at the VA," said then-candidate Obama.
When a veteran is denied care, we are all dishonored."