With only 20,000 nerve cells -- compared with about 100 billion found in the human brain -- Aplysia are the perfect lab animals for brain researchers hoping to isolate a crucial connection.
CNN spoke with Kandel about his research and why he's fascinated by the human brain.
One is complex forms of memory, which require the hippocampus and (are called) explicit memory storage.
And the two involve different systems in the brain.
You've got to see how a memory is formed.
Rather than studying the most complex form of memory in a very complicated animal, we had to take the most simple form -- an implicit form of memory -- in a very simple animal.
My colleagues and I found that learning involves alterations in the strength of communication between nerve cells.
CNN: So would memory work the same in a human as it does in a snail?
Obviously human memory is much more complicated than memory of a snail.
If it finds through natural selection that some set of mechanisms work, it tends to retain those mechanisms in perpetuity.
And this is what one finds with the learning process.
And I didn't particularly enjoy the science courses; even in medical school, I enjoyed the clinical work much more than the basic science courses.
I remember having dinner with my wife before we were married and telling her, 'You know, I can see doing this for the rest of my life, but it's ridiculous.
Kandel: Well, I think it's a fascinating problem because it's so central to everything we do.
With Alzheimer's disease, you lose explicit memory, complicated memory, so he would have difficulty recognizing people.
But when he sat down at the piano, he could play almost as well as he ever did.
If you ask him afterward, 'What's it like to play the piano?'
The other reason memory is so important is there is a number of a diseases that affect memory storage, and we'd like to know how they work so we can try to remedy them.
It's Huntington's disease and Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's disease -- dreadful disorders that we want to be able to help people with.
CNN: In 2004, you said that we could have effective memory drugs in two years.
With Alzheimer's disease, I think the understanding is surprisingly good.
By the time they come to us with symptoms of Alzheimer's disease, they've had the disease for 10 years.
Kandel: Well, you know, it's a relative thing.
...
There's much, much more to be studied, and much, much more to be learned.