He was even on the short list to be Romney's running mate.
"I'm announcing today a change of heart on an issue that a lot of people feel strongly about that has to do with gay couples' opportunity to marry," Portman told CNN.
His 21-year-old son, Will, is gay.
"My son came to Jane, my wife, and I, told us that he was gay, and that it was not a choice, and that it's just part of who he is, and that's who he'd been that way for as long as he could remember," said Portman.
Portman says his son, now a junior in college, helped him work through his decision to announce his change in position on gay marriage and blessed the idea of publicly announcing Will Portman's sexuality.
"I told Mitt Romney everything," said Portman with a laugh.
"Well, because they told me," said Portman.
"He was a good person to talk to because he also was surprised by the news, in that case, you know, his wonderful daughter, who he loves very much.
You know, I followed my heart," he said.
"It was a little odd.
Look, and to be honest with you, it didn't affect that decision-making much, because it was, I didn't think it was appropriate," Portman said.
He just recently became comfortable with his decision to shift his position on gay marriage, and also he said he knew the Supreme Court is considering a pair of gay marriage cases, and reporters would likely ask him for his position.
"Well, I would say that, you know, I've had a change of heart based on a personal experience.
But I do think, you know, having spent a lot of time thinking about it and working through this issue personally that, you know, this is where I am, for reasons that are consistent with my political philosophy, including family values, including being a conservative who believes the family is a building block of society, so I'm comfortable there now."
"He wanted to tell us that there's something about him that we didn't know," Portman said, reflecting on the day two years ago his son Will first told his parents he was gay.
Did it change the way you think about same-sex marriage or gay men, lesbians or bisexuals in general?