The grand jury hearing evidence on the Michael Brown shooting is preparing to meet Friday for what might be its final session, and a decision on whether to charge Officer Darren Wilson could come the same day, law enforcement officials briefed on the plans said.
Concerns have also been raised that some witnesses could be put at risk once their testimony and identities become public, law enforcement officials said.
A tense Ferguson is awaiting to hear whether a St. Louis County grand jury believes Wilson should stand trial in the fatal shooting of the unarmed Brown.
Some predict that will be the case again when the grand jury's decision is announced.
Missouri Gov.
He said some protesters came in wanting to leave fliers with information in his office.
St. Louis Police Chief Sam Dotson said Tuesday that his officers are ready for whatever happens.
... Acts of violence will not be tolerated," he said.
The city's police will wear normal uniforms, as "we do not want to appear to militarize our response to the demonstrations and want to do everything we can to de-escalate," the mayor wrote, adding that police may don riot gear if public safety demands it.
Area school superintendents wrote a letter to city officials and authorities requesting that they announce the grand jury's decision on an evening or weeknight so it doesn't affect about 20,000 students traveling back and forth to schools.
A group of community members calling themselves the Don't Shoot Coalition has asked for 48 hours' notice before the ruling is made public.
In the St. Louis area, protesters have been staging dry runs on how to face police.
The Ferguson National Response Network expects that reaction to the grand jury ruling will not be limited to the St. Louis area.
McMullen, the insurance company owner on West Florissant, said that protesters have made this into a racial issue but have ignored the facts of the case.
Many told CNN in August that other witnesses allege Wilson shot Brown at least six times as he stood about 30 feet from Wilson's police cruiser.
Where he once lay is a makeshift memorial -- half on the sidewalk and half on Canfield Drive, in the middle of the road, exactly where Brown fell.