A year after he pulled back from threatened military attacks on Syria over chemical weapons, Obama told America he now would launch airstrikes against ISIS targets in the country wracked by civil war.
He also threatened airstrikes on ISIS targets in a major expansion of a campaign in Iraq previously limited to protecting U.S. advisers working with Iraqi forces and preventing the slaughter of minority groups by the extremists also known as ISIL and the Islamic State.
"I have made it clear that we will hunt down terrorists who threaten our country, wherever they are," Obama said.
It answered calls from a growing number of U.S. politicians for such a step, with increasing public support for expanded airstrikes against ISIS targets.
"It will not involve American combat troops fighting on foreign soil," Obama said.
"The Saudis made very clear that they support this mission, they will join us in this mission," a senior administration official said.
That was the case before 9/11, and that remains true today," Obama said in depicting ISIS as a threat to the Middle East, including the people of Iraq and Syria, rather than the U.S. homeland.
He said training opposition fighters on the ground will boost the effectiveness of the airstrikes.
Leading Democrats such as Sen. Dianne Feinstein of California and Sen. Chuck Schumer of New York praised the speech, as expected, while Sen. Robert Menendez of New Jersey said the Foreign Relations Committee he chairs would begin drafting legislation to provide Obama with specific authority under the War Powers Resolution to continue to extend military operations against ISIS.
This week, Obama asked Congress for additional authority to arm and train moderate Syrian rebels to fight the ISIS extremists, effectively shifting a covert operation by the CIA to a mission led by the Defense Department.
Most voices in Congress back strong U.S. action against the ISIS fighters.
CNN's Chelsea J. Carter, Dana Bash, Faith Karimi, Josh Levs, Jim Acosta, Diane Ruggiero, Elise Labott and Kevin Liptak contributed to this report.