(CNN) -- Few of us can imagine living the opulent "Downton Abbey" lives of the fictional Crawley family at the turn of the 20th century.
"These homes represented the creation of immense wealth at the turn of the century in the United States, the kind of wealth acquired through fundamental commodities like water, gold, oil and food," said Katherine Malone-France, the National Trust for Historic Preservation's historic sites director of outreach, education and support.
The new American wealthy didn't have hundreds of years to build their fancy homes and reputations, yet the Vanderbilts, Rockefellers and other wealthy families built houses to last for generations.
The six-story home, now a National Trust for Historic Preservation property operated by the Rockefeller Brothers Fund, is open to the public for tours.
Make sure to tour the gardens to see New York Gov.
Although the Brucemore estate was built for wealthy widow Caroline Sinclair and her six children in 1886, the Sinclair family lived there just 20 years.
He replied, "No, I must be a gentleman" and went to join a group of men waiting for later lifeboats.
While still alive, they deeded the house, much of its contents and the surrounding property to the Cranbrook Foundation they created, living the rest of their lives not as owners but under a life trust at Cranbrook House.
George Vanderbilt didn't care for the city life as much as the rest of his family.
Descendants of the Vanderbilts still own and operate the estate as a for-profit company, and the home is now open to the public for tours.
Modern guests can stay at an inn built in 2001 or a historic cottage that once served as the gardener's house.
Filoli was completed in 1917 as the country estate for Mr. and Mrs. William Bowers Bourn, San Franciscans whose money came from water and gold.
The next owners lived in the house until 1975, when the house and formal gardens were donated to the National Trust for Historic Preservation.
Now one of the famous Newport Mansions and a National Historic Landmark, the Elms was finished in 1901.
To get a good sense of life among the servants, the Preservation Society of Newport County, which owns and operates 10 historic properties in Newport, added an Elms servant life tour last year.