(CNN) -- The Syrian government has said it will let the United Nations enter the country and deliver humanitarian aid to people in need, a U.N. official said Tuesday.
Ging said the Syrian government has signed a memorandum that describes the planned humanitarian response for the approximately 1 million people who need humanitarian aid urgently.
The announcement of the delivery of humanitarian aid came the same day that Syria announced that it was expelling diplomats from 11 countries.
To press for tough action against the Syrian regime, the United States is sending a delegation to Russia this week led by special adviser Frederic Hof, a senior Obama administration official said.
Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Mikhail Bogdanov said talks between Russia and the United States "continue at various levels," the state-run news agency RIA Novosti said.
"It is time for Russia to change its position from standing by the Syrian regime to sincerely try to stop the violence and support a peaceful transition of power," al-Faisal added.
Ambassador Robert Ford, who has been in the United States since February, when the U.S. government closed its embassy in Damascus.
Turkey's ambassador and all members of the embassy -- diplomats and administrators -- are expelled, the Syrian Foreign Ministry said.
Last week, Syria expelled the Dutch charge d'affaires after the Netherlands was among countries expelling Syrian diplomats.
The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, another opposition group, also reported the clashes Tuesday on the outskirts of Hiffa, saying at least 11 opposition members were killed: two civilians and nine rebel fighters.
Medical sources and activists reported at least 22 members of the Syrian security forces and government militia killed as well, the observatory said.
The head of the U.N. observer mission in Syria, Maj. Gen. Robert Mood, met in Damascus on Tuesday for more than an hour with Syrian Deputy Foreign Minister Faisal Miqdad, the United Nations said.
CNN's Amir Ahmed, Arwa Damon, Jill Dougherty and Josh Levs contributed to this report.