NEW YORK (CNN) -- The man tapped as Afghanistan's next intelligence chief faces allegations of drug trafficking and torture that stem from his work as a powerful official in the rough-and-tumble Taliban-birthplace of Kandahar, according to testimony from a top Canadian diplomat and other sources familiar with the new appointee.
Much of the concern stems from the testimony of Richard Colvin, Canada's former deputy ambassador to Afghanistan, who worked directly with Khalid while he was governor of Kandahar from 2005 to 2008.
He was known to have had a dungeon in Ghazni, his previous province, where he used to detain people for money, and some of them disappeared," Colvin said in his testimony.
When asked, he had sort of justifications for it, but he was known to personally torture people in that dungeon," said Colvin.
"I know there is nothing (in terms of evidence)," he said last week.
But Human Rights Watch weighed in on Friday and called on the Afghan president to "drop reported plans to appoint a senior official linked to torture," referring to Khalid.
Wali Karzai, the president's half-brother and once a powerful southern political figure, was gunned down by a bodyguard in Kandahar last year.
Analysts say Khalid's redefined role over southern security forces may have afforded Karzai a needed ally, particularly in the absence of his younger brother.
He later worked in conjunction with U.S. Special Forces in southern Afghanistan, according to a former senior Afghan official, who declined to be named, citing security concerns.
But the former official added that he knew of no evidence to support allegations of Khalid's direct involvement in torture.
The NDS is Afghanistan's main intelligence agency and reports directly to the president and National Assembly.
"He had the NDS," Afghan said.
Afghan also noted that the regional NDS chief reported directly to both Kabul headquarters and to Khalid, a practice thought to be commonplace in Afghanistan.
"People were taken out and questioned, hanged to death and beaten to death," he said.
Bismillah Khan Mohammedi, a well-connected Tajik leader with robust ties to the Afghan army and police, was tapped to head up the Defense Ministry, Karzai's office reported.
"This is classic Karzai, and trial balloon floating," said Stephen Biddle, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations.
But his moves have also raised new questions about Afghanistan's rising political players, particularly those expected to take over in the wake of the NATO withdrawal.