Not just any party.
By his count, there were at least 400 parties planned during the DNC and 200 during the Republican National Convention.
Tonight Steiner decides to stop by Planned Parenthood Political Action Fund's "Sex, Politics, and Cocktails" party first.
"There is a real transparency issue here," Steiner says.
He says he can usually talk his way into events.
A woman clutching one of the "We love Michelle" banners that had been handed out on the convention floor earlier in the evening keeps knocking it into people as she joyfully dances "The Electric Slide."
"This party seems like a way to drum up enthusiasm with the base," Steiner says, as he makes his way to the bar to talk with someone he knows.
"It's not a party where you will rub shoulders with governors, and people aren't necessarily sowing the seeds for laws that will be written next year here like we've seen at some of the super-elite parties, but it still is important," Steiner says.
"The Democrats have clearly decided their work for women is a winning issue for them, and Pelosi is a rock star among the Democratic base," Steiner says.
Andra Gillespie, a political science professor at Emory University who was in Charlotte to observe the convention, says parties such as this energize the base on particular issues.
"The fact that Pelosi is there gives them a chance to take a picture with her and then tweet it out or put it on their Facebook page.
Steiner says there were several splashy events at the RNC.
The lobby has a different feel than the Planned Parenthood party.
And more people carrying "We love Michelle" signs, now somewhat crushed, make their way toward the elevator.
Steiner says he noticed their names on a giant screen next to the dance floor.
"That type of corporate sponsorship may suggest they have more influence than others with politicians, and some may take issue with it, but groups don't have the money to do this on their own and they want to attract the right people to their events.
Men with lapel pins identifying them as state legislators or congressmen make their way into the party.
"This is more a top-flight party than Planned Parenthood's, as the guest list is more exclusive and the food, drink and space itself is some of the most expensive I've seen," Steiner explains later.
"These conventions are supposed to be merely ... events to rally for these candidates," Holman says.
It's past 1 a.m. when Steiner leaves the party and heads off to another.
It's supposed to be at a mansion, but he doesn't know which one.