(CNN) -- Guatemalan President Alvaro Colom should leave office during the investigation into whether he was connected to three recent slayings, his 2007 presidential opponent said Thursday.
The crisis started Monday with the surfacing of a video in which Guatemalan attorney Rodrigo Rosenberg said Colom, the president's wife and a top aide would be responsible if something happened to the lawyer.
Rosenberg was being threatened with death, he said, because he had blamed Colom and his associates for the April slayings of a prominent businessman and his daughter.
He promised a full investigation and said he would accept international help, asking the U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation to become involved.
But Rosenberg supporters say they don't believe the Guatemalan government can carry out an impartial and thorough investigation and want Colom out.
"It is evident that [Rosenberg's video statement] was written by someone who has been in on this plan to destabilize the government and for reasons that I don't know, because I don't know why Mr. Rosenberg mentions us in that video," Colom said.
"It's a very worrisome situation," said Planty, the former U.S. ambassador.
Larry Birns, director of the Council on Hemispheric Affairs, a Washington policy institute, agrees with that assessment.
Very damning," he said.
"I fear that this crisis will lead to violence and destabilization of the government," Carrera said from Guatemala City.
"The powers that be are trying to make it a social issue -- the wealthy against the poor," he said.
Rosenberg was his wife's law professor at La Universidad Francisco Marroquin, Tornoe said.
He believes people are fed up.
The investigation, he said, will be handled by an independent attorney general who does not report to the president.
Colom's critics accuse the president of already meddling in the investigation.
Guatemala has "a culture of corruption," said Planty, the former U.S. envoy.
Rosenberg said the same thing in the video, bemoaning the "narcos, assassins and thieves" who have taken over the country.
"Those thieves are sinking all of Guatemala," he said.
Instead, his funeral was held that day.