The man identified as Suspect 2 was seen setting down a backpack at the site of the second explosion "within minutes" of the blasts that killed three people and wounded nearly 180, said Special Agent Rick DesLauriers, the head of the FBI's Boston office.
"Somebody out there knows these individuals as friends, neighbors, co-workers or family members of the suspects," DesLauriers said.
People with possible information on the two men were urged to go to the FBI's website, https://bostonmarathontips.fbi.gov, or call 800-CALL-FBI (800-225-5324).
"No one should approach them," he said.
While video of at least one suspect planting the bomb exists, the FBI had chosen not to release it, according to the official.
The investigation also turned toward the possibility that the bombs had been detonated by remote control, a federal law enforcement official briefed on the investigation said Thursday.
In the early hours of the investigation, a law enforcement official told CNN that the bombs were probably detonated by timers.
"Every one of us stands with you," Obama told the crowd.
Addressing the still-unknown perpetrators, Obama added: "Yes, we will find you.
And he looked ahead to next year's race, predicting that "the world will return to this great American city to run even harder and to cheer even louder for the 118th Boston Marathon.
Obama also stopped at a high school to thank a group of first responders and volunteers and met with patients recovering from the attacks at Massachusetts General Hospital.
The first lady met with patients, families and hospital staff at Boston Children's Hospital and Brigham and Women's Hospital, the White House said.
One device was housed in a pressure cooker hidden inside a backpack, the FBI said.
The second bomb was in a metal container, but it was unclear whether it was in a pressure cooker as well, the FBI said.
• Richard, the 8-year-old boy with a gap-tooth grin and bright eyes.
The U.S. State Department has been in contact with her family and the Chinese Foreign Ministry, Secretary of State John Kerry said in a statement released Thursday.