Jury selection begins Friday, as attorneys begin to whittle down a pool of more than 1,100 potential jurors to the small group that will decide whether Hernandez is guilty of murdering semipro football player Odin Lloyd.
Hernandez, 25, has pleaded not guilty.
In the months leading up to jury selection, Hernandez's defense attorneys, who insist Hernandez will be exonerated, have been trying to chip away at the prosecution's case.
Lloyd's texts to his sister: For example, the jury won't hear about text messages between the victim, Odin Lloyd, and his younger sister, sent just minutes before Lloyd's death.
At 3:07 a.m., according to prosecutors, Lloyd texted his sister Shaquilla Thibou a question: "U saw who I'm with(?)"
Minutes later, witnesses heard shots fired at an industrial park about a mile from Hernandez's home, they told prosecutors.
Hernandez's texts to Lloyd: Jurors will, however, be able to see texts between Hernandez and Lloyd from earlier that night when the football player invited Lloyd to hang out.
The surveillance video: Prosecutors will be able to show Hernandez on his home surveillance video system walking toward his basement door holding what prosecutors say appears to be a gun.
Investigators say a vehicle that appears to match the description of a car rented by Hernandez is seen on security cameras driving through the industrial park, allegedly with Hernandez, Wallace, Ortiz, and Lloyd inside.
Prosecutors have said they plan to argue Lloyd's murder was a "joint venture."
In court papers, detectives said they were looking for three pairs of sneakers photographed in a closet during their original 2013 search.
The shoes were not there.
He's pleaded not guilty in that case, too, and the trial is pending.
Prosecutors have permission from the judge to take jurors to see Hernandez's home, as well as the shooting site.
Garsh ruled that a trophy case and Patriots jersey inside the home will remain in view.
CNN's Michelle Rozsa and Laura Dolan contributed to this report.