That prospect is increasing as the United States openly accuses its former Cold War foe of sending tanks and troops in unmarked uniforms across the border into eastern Ukraine, boosting separatists in their battle against Kiev's beleaguered forces.
Carter said he was "very much inclined" to support sending what the administration calls "lethal" defensive arms to the Ukraine government.
White House spokesman Josh Earnest meanwhile offered what appeared to be a rebuke of Carter on Wednesday, saying "a decision like this will be made by the Commander-in-Chief," in a reminder of where power over national security lies in this administration.
Eugene Rumer, who served as national intelligence officer for Russia and Eurasia at the US National Intelligence Council from 2010 until last year, said that arming Ukraine would prolong a conflict Kiev cannot win outright.
The top US diplomat also said that modern weapons, including rockets were flowing across the border into eastern Ukraine in breach of a peace deal signed by Russian, the Kiev government and separatists last year.
Since the start of the conflict, the U.S. has sent military aid including night vision goggles to Ukraine, but stopped short of sending lethal items.
The group called on Obama to spend $3 billion over three years to arm Ukraine with lethal defensive weapons.
"It's time to provide Ukraine the ability to defend itself," she said.
Administration officials insist that no decisions have yet been made to increase U.S. assistance to Ukraine.
"Only if the Kremlin knows that the risks and the costs of further military action are high, will it seek to find an acceptable political solution," the report warned.
We will deter Russian aggression, remain alert to its strategic capabilities, and help our allies and partners resist Russian coercion over the long term, if necessary," the White House strategy said.
Merkel, who will meet Obama at the White House on Monday, arrived in Moscow on Friday with French President Francois Hollande, seeking to convince Putin to sign on to a ceasefire in eastern Ukraine and a long term peace plan.
He said it would be six months to a year before a U.S. operation could have a measurable effect on the situation on the ground in Ukraine.