In 2010 the Appalachian Trail was officially 2,179.1 miles long.
The Appalachian Trail stretches from Springer Mountain, in north Georgia, to Katahdin, in central Maine, crossing 14 states and five national parks.
There are more than 250 garage-size shelters "roughly a day's hike apart" along the length of the Appalachian Trail, according to Brian King of the Appalachian Trail Conservancy, the nonprofit corporation that leads efforts to maintain the trail.
That's good, because that "day's hike" can be up to 30 miles, since shelters are built near sources of fresh water, King said.
On hikes from Georgia through Connecticut, I have seen hundreds of birds, chipmunks and squirrels, spiders, a few deer, two wild turkeys as big as a washer and dryer, a wild pig, the backside of a bear running into the brush, and a rattlesnake lying across the trail warming itself in the morning sun.
1 rule of the Appalachian Trail: Leave no trace.
Some also have "bear boxes," lockers that keep food safe from larger beasts.
Most of the Appalachian Trail is strewn with rocks.
Still, it seems there are more rocks on the trail than off the trail.
Hiking uphill carrying 20-30 pounds is strenuous, especially when it's a half-mile climb up large rocks.
But on a steep downhill, your knee takes more impact.
An estimated 12,000 people have hiked the full length of the Appalachian Trail since it was completed in 1937.
The Appalachian Trail Conservancy's King says it usually takes from five to seven months.
Those who have hiked the Appalachian Trail "know they've done it," King said.
Volunteers often give up some of their vacation so hikers can use some of theirs on the Appalachian Trail.
"Trail magic" comes from" trail angels."
..."
"Oh, good, more rocks."
Oh, good, more rocks.
You can trap thru-hikers with beer.
If a shelter is near enough to a road and to a town, it's not unusual to see a pizza delivery or two.
That's why a smartphone with GPS is essential; you can use it to find towns near the trail and supplies.
They work by adding a handful of dirt after each visit.