But with a New York City apartment.
My place would be clean, bathed in sunlight, in an elegant prewar building, with a spare room for my college-age daughter.
It would certainly not be fixer-upper (a "wreck," as we say around here), and would have updated plumbing and wiring.
New York 2013 is the Wild West of real estate.
According to The New York Times, a go-to place for apartment listings, in October 2009 there were 8,150 apartments listed for sale in Manhattan.
The "man-apartment" similarities abound.
Trolling the real estate websites, you click on a link and find the apartment of your dreams.
Dare to lock eyes with him?
A good man in New York is like prime real estate, snapped up before you can blink.
Perhaps because you're not entirely sure the person you've been chatting with online even resembles his profile photo.
To help find my apartment "match," I signed with an experienced buyer's broker: Roberta Moser of Halstead Property.
"It's OK to fall in love with an apartment, but you can't get too attached to an apartment."
You think you're close to clinching a deal, and suddenly another buyer swoops in to offer cash for an apartment.
Your bid may be accepted, but until the seller signs the contract, you're in limbo.
"I want that apartment," I told her in the elevator.
We entered our "best and final" bid, but were tied with another buyer.
Once, when there were multiple offers, Moser recalled, "a buyer delivered a signed contract with a check for $100,000 over the asking price of the apartment."
Moser, the ultimate real estate matchmaker, found me the right space at a decent price.
But it was a good deal -- and with a little luck, everything fell into place.
How could meeting a man in New York possibly be as difficult as landing an affordable apartment?
And all those type-A personalities don't work well for matchmaking.
As for men, "you have single dads, divorced dads, widowers, a good portion looking for women 10 years younger than they are.
In Seattle, for example, "there are four single men to every single woman," says Avgitidis.
That is, if I can ever bear the thought of moving again.