If you eat in your car you may want to consider fabric or leather protections.
You still need to decide whether to buy any of those "extras" that your salesperson will always suggest.
We wanted to know which of these new car extras were worth it and which ones a consumer can do without.
"I think that most paint jobs on cars are pretty good these days, so in most cases you probably don't need that anymore," said Bennett, who offered one caveat.
"Do you have a lot of kids and are they prone to spill things?
"Also, look at exclusions in the plan," advises Bennett.
Each of these policies or plans is probably offering something different, and you need to read all of the exclusions before making that purchase, because it might not be a good one for you."
It's also a good idea , to use a leather conditioner regularly on leather seats to restore moisture and to maintain its appearance.
"I don't think this is necessary in most cases," opines Bennett.
But if you want to go the more high-tech "tracking" route, using a security system like LoJack may give you more peace of mind.
The System uses a code that is tied into the Vehicle Identification Number (VIN).
If you live in a high-crime area, a system like this could provide you with peace of mind," advises Bennett.
"Because the system allows OnStar operators to track the location of the vehicle if it is stolen.
So if you buy a GM car with the OnStar system, you may want to pass on a LoJack or similar tracking system."
"They usually have three levels of warranties: A basic extended warranty will just cover the powertrain, for example; while a better one will cover the powertrain plus some other components that are listed -- or an 'exclusionary' extended warranty may say it covers everything except those items that are listed.
Bennett gives an example of one manufacturers warranty.
"That's a pretty good warranty, so if you plan on only keeping your vehicle for five years or less, the extended warranty is probably money you don't need to spend."