Also Wednesday, the House Oversight Committee's leading members said Sullivan provided a "detailed response" to their separate list of questions about the incident.
Grassley is demanding that the White House turn over all details of an internal review that found no wrongdoing by advance staff members, and he renewed his call Wednesday after receiving Sullivan's response that the Secret Service inquiry didn't involve White House records.
King said Tuesday night that Sullivan's answers to his committee's questions disclosed that three of the 12 Secret Service agents involved in the scandal had refused to cooperate with authorities and submit to a polygraph test.
On Wednesday morning, King said that no security breach occurred from the Secret Service agents consorting with foreign prostitutes in their hotel rooms shortly before Obama's arrival in Cartagena for last month's Summit of the Americas.
"It does not appear that any of the 12 women had any involvement other than prostitution," King added.
While King did not provide CNN copies of the responses -- which he said are marked "law enforcement sensitive" -- he highlighted several details Tuesday night.
U.S. officials have interviewed 10 of the 12 women involved in the scandal, King noted.
The top legislators on the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee said Tuesday that they've also sent a letter to Sullivan asking for information on the incident.
Two other congressional committees are looking into the scandal, as well as the Homeland Security inspector general, while the Secret Service and the White House have conducted internal reviews.
Last week, the Secret Service distributed new rules for its agents on assignment intended to prevent a repeat of such alleged misconduct, according to two government sources familiar with the resulting investigation.
The new standards specify that U.S. laws apply to Secret Service personnel when traveling, rendering invalid the excuse that specific activity is legal in the foreign country, the officials said.
However, Panetta said last week that his department is not investigating any of its troops over the reported incident in El Salvador, while State Department spokesman Victoria Nuland said Embassy staff in El Salvador were being questioned about the allegations.
The Drug Enforcement Administration also is prepared to look into, "in an appropriate manner and immediately," allegations that it deems "credible" regarding its agents in El Salvador, spokesman Rusty Payne said.