Lebanon had maintained relative stability despite the full-tilt civil war that has torn apart its largest neighbor and former military occupier, Syria, for more than a year and a half.
Many in Lebanon immediately suspected al-Assad's regime in the assassination.
Lebanon's army made an unprecedented move by issuing a statement demanding that politicians order their supporters to calm down.
Lawmakers who are most opposed to Syria's influence inside Lebanon -- mostly through its Lebanese ally, Hezbollah -- are now calling for the government's resignation.
Lebanese officials said there was no doubt al-Hassan was the target of the attack.
Al-Hassan may have been targeted because he was leading an investigation into a Lebanese politician, Michel Samaha, who is accused of working with two Syrian officials to plan attacks inside Lebanon.
Hezbollah is also an Iran-backed paramilitary group deemed a terrorist organization by the United States, whose agents inside Lebanon were indicted by the United Nations for Hariri's assassination.
"But there hasn't been a major drive to push the Free Syrian Army out of the country because the government knows a large segment of the Lebanese population supports the rebels."
Hezbollah was created in 1982 to oppose Israel's occupation of Lebanon.
"They provide in a fair and efficient way, but Hezbollah is also authoritarian, power-hungry and militaristic," said Cambanis, who has reported extensively in the region for the Boston Globe and the New York Times.
Iran and Syria support Hezbollah's ideology.
Against what?
Most of the protesters are allied with Sunni coalitions that have long been sharply critical of the Lebanese government's perceived closeness with the Syrian regime, blaming Mitaki for not preventing Friday's deadly car bomb.
Lebanon has always struggled to maintain a balance among its religious and ethnic sects, and the current tensions mirror those in Syria: In both countries, the Shiite and Alawite Muslim sects (al-Assad is an Alawite) tend to support the Syrian regime, while support is growing among Sunni Muslims for Syrian rebels.
The core of the Syrian president's support in Lebanon is in the southern part of the country.
"There's been an assumption for several years that the Lebanese people are fed up and exhausted with civil war," Phillips said.