(CNN) -- The Obama administration calculates it's likely North Korea may test fire mobile ballistic missiles at any time, based on the most recent intelligence showing Pyongyang probably has completed launch preparations, a U.S. official said Tuesday.
The United States thinks the missiles remain at a point about halfway down the eastern coast of North Korea and are about 10 miles inland.
The United States and Japan would then have to decide whether to try to shoot the missiles down, the officials said.
The hearing came as North Korea issued its latest dispatch of ominous rhetoric Tuesday, telling foreigners in South Korea they should take steps to protect themselves in the event of a conflict.
The admiral was asked whether there's ever been a time of greater tension among North Korea, South Korea and the United States since the end of the Korean War in the 1950s.
He said that sometimes, China can be "more nuanced" than the United States, and he noted some reporting that the leadership in China has made some statements about the issue.
While he didn't mention North Korea, the comments were seen as a reference to Pyongyang.
North Korea's unnerving message advising foreigners to secure shelter or evacuate in case of hostilities came as Japan set up missile defenses in Tokyo and North Korean workers failed to turn up for work in the industrial complex jointly operated by North and South Korea.
"Once a war is ignited on the peninsula, it will be an all-out war," the committee said, adding that North Korea doesn't want foreigners in South Korea to "fall victim" to a conflict.
At this moment, we see no immediate threat to British citizens in South Korea."
Amid the fiery words from Pyongyang and annual military training exercises by U.S. and South Korean forces in the region, government officials in Washington and Seoul say they are taking the North Korean threat seriously.
In the days before North Korea's latest round of threats and provocations, U.S. and North Korean officials met in New York, although nothing came of the meeting, said a source familiar with what happened.
Han promised to carry the messages back to Pyongyang, the source said.
South Korean government officials have said they think North Korea could conduct the test launch of a missile as soon as Wednesday, following reports that the North had loaded as many as two medium-range missiles onto mobile launchers on its east coast.
On Tuesday, the South Korean Unification Ministry said the North Korean workers hadn't reported for work in the district, which is the last major symbol of cooperation between the two Koreas.
Analysts had expressed skepticism that Pyongyang would follow through on previous threats to shut down the complex, noting that it is an important source of hard currency to Kim's regime.
Kwon, Tim Schwarz, Kyung Lah, Judy Kwon, Jim Clancy, Yoko Wakatsuki, Junko Ogura, Tom Cohen and Dana Ford contributed to this report.