It also comes a day after the European Union and the United States slapped sanctions on Russian lawmakers and businessmen; Russia responded with its own list of sanctions against a number of U.S. lawmakers and officials.
In a sign that Western sanctions are already weighing on Russian authorities, Finance Minister Anton Siluanov said Friday in Moscow that the government will have to pay more to borrow money, state news agency ITAR-Tass said.
Human Rights Watch said in a statement Friday that it has concluded that the international law of occupation applies to Russian forces in Crimea.
While in Brussels, Yatsenyuk held talks with European Council President Herman Van Rompuy and European Commission chief Jose Manuel Barroso.
The European Union confirmed details of the sanctions against 12 Russian officials agreed to late Thursday at the EU Heads of State or Government summit.
British Prime Minister David Cameron said the European Commission will draw up further sanctions -- in finance, military and energy -- for use if the situation escalates.
Cameron said the measures agreed to in Brussels will carry a cost for Crimea, whose goods would face heavy penalties and tariffs in Europe if they are shipped through Russia, not Ukraine.
EU leaders want to see an international observer mission in Crimea, preferably under the aegis of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe but, if not, sent by the European Union, Cameron said.
He and a team were to meet with Crimean leaders, the head of the Crimean Tatar minority and others, including the families of Ukrainian servicemen, the United Nations said.
The U.S. sanctions announced Thursday target 20 people seen as close to Putin, as well as a bank, Rossiya, believed to serve the President and senior Russian officials.
The individuals named by the U.S. Treasury include Putin allies in the Kremlin and in business.
In Washington, the House Foreign Affairs Committee introduced a bill Friday that provides aid to Ukraine.
"It sends a clear message to President Putin and his corrupt cronies that we will not tolerate Russian aggression."
Washington had already announced sanctions Monday on 11 individuals; the European Union had imposed travel bans and asset freezes on 21 people.
In contrast, the markets and ruble had risen Monday, when the first round of sanctions was announced and did not appear to target those in Putin's inner circle.
Russia's Foreign Ministry said Friday that it had asked Putin to draft countermeasures in response to the expanded Western sanctions.
Editors' Note: This article has been edited to remove plagiarized content after CNN discovered multiple instances of plagiarism by Marie-Louise Gumuchian, a former CNN news editor.