The complex legal framework that was put in place when the city reverted to Chinese rule in 1997 makes it a unique case, and one which means that the delineations between the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (SAR) and the mainland are rarely straightforward.
While the former colony was returned to Chinese sovereignty, the British colonial legacy has endured, and with it a set of institutions and historical, cultural, economic, legal and lifestyle differences.
While the island of Hong Kong was ceded in perpetuity following the first Opium War, the bulk of Hong Kong's landmass, the Kowloon peninsula and the New Territories, were leased from China.
Hong Kong's defacto constitution, the Basic Law, states that Hong Kong will co-exist with China as "one country, two systems" for 50 years after the handover of power in 1997.
"The stability of Hong Kong is crucial," Victor Gao, director of the China National Association of International Studies told CNN from Beijing.
Linguistically -- Cantonese is the common tongue here -- socially and culturally, Hong Kong and the mainland can seem worlds apart.
Every six months since the handover in 1997, Hong Kong University has surveyed a sample of Hong Kong residents to gauge feelings of identity in the city.
If Hong Kong became like China then that would be a real shame."
I don't think police will open fire because Hong Kong is a safe place."
For many, it is what sets Hong Kong apart from the mainland and its reputation for honesty is one of the reasons that so many multinationals have based their regional headquarters in the city.
Hong Kong retains a legal system which closely mirrors the British one, another holdover from the colonial era, but one which prizes transparency and due process and is largely welcomed by the populace.
Not only was the presence of the city's free market a huge influence on the economic reforms of the late 1970s and 80s, but investment in the mainland from Hong Kong tops that from everywhere else combined.
The mainland's promotion of its own cities as rivals to Hong Kong -- Shanghai as a free trade and financial hub, for example -- could further complicate the relationship between Hong Kong and China.