It's mid-morning in Brazil and Melissa, her husband Alex and their four-year-old daughter are also glued to the TV to watch their hero in the season-ending Abu Dhabi Grand Prix.
"We met up with fans from all over; we had a guy from the UK and one guy even took a bus from Boston just to watch the race.
She told CNN: "I support Lewis every day but during the races I am aware of everything, even practice and all the interviews.
Racing in a global championship has helped Hamilton gain fame across international borders.
"Lewis has over three million Facebook fans -- with a third of those coming from the UK -- and he has 2.6 million Twitter followers," explained Jon Stainer, managing director of leading sports and entertainment market research company Repucom.
Tom Roope, whose company Rumpus Room runs Hamilton's digital media, decided to tap into the racing star's global appeal in the build-up to the sizzling Abu Dhabi finale.
"We saw that Lewis' fans were talking to one another and so we came up with the protocol #TeamLH," explains Roope.
"Around 50% of them are from the UK but then there are a lot in Asia, Brazil and the U.S. 30,000 fans uploaded videos from 50 countries.
Here it is.
"This weekend the guy who does my website put together a collage of different clips of messages from people," he said.
"It was important to us personally," Thomas said.
Thomas, who is originally from Guyana in South America, has also been galvanizing global support for Hamilton through social media for the last five years.
Hamilton's mass appeal is not just because he's an F1 driver and now a double world champion.
"There's a crossover that appeals to many, many backgrounds," said Thomas.
This hip-hop style and the fact that he spends a lot of time in the U.S. make him one of the few drivers who actually appeals to Americans."
Hamilton has also always worn his heart on his sleeve against a backdrop of fierce racing rivalry -- usually with his teammates --- and an on-off romance with Scherzinger.
Many of Hamilton's fans -- though not all -- warm to these moments of human frailty as much as his derring-do on the racetrack, and draw inspiration from both.
Melissa races go karts in Brazil and, although she credits her husband Alex for his practical support, she also takes heart from Hamilton.
Melissa has met Hamilton at many Brazilian Grands Prix.
Thomas, like Melissa, has met Hamilton "tonnes of times" in and around grand prix weekends.
"The first person we invited verbally to our wedding was Lewis," Thomas explained.
"We met him in the pit lane at the U.S. Grand Prix last year, he hung out with us, took selfies and we alluded to the fact that we were getting married and said 'hey you're the first invite.'
"Lewis is genuinely indebted to his fans," said Roope.
Find out in Part II published on Thursday.