Last week's massacre at a Colorado movie theater revived the dormant gun control debate in the United States, but neither President Barack Obama nor Republican candidate Mitt Romney is pushing for new laws now to prevent similar attacks.
"Somehow thinking that laws against the instruments of violence will make violence go away, I think, is misguided."
For that reason, both campaigns had generally ignored it, despite mass killings in recent years -- a gunman who killed 32 people at Virginia Tech in 2007 and another who killed six people and wounded 13 others, including Democratic Rep. Gabrielle Giffords, last year in Arizona.
"I also believe that a lot of gun owners would agree that AK-47s belong in the hands of soldiers, not in the hands of criminals," Obama said.
"Soothing words are nice, but maybe it's time that the two people who want to be president of the United States stand up and tell us what they are going to do about it, because this is obviously a problem across the country," said Bloomberg, an independent who supports gun control.
Some conservatives also called for action, with media mogul Rupert Murdoch tweeting after last week's shootings that "we have to do something about gun controls" while Fox host Bill O'Reilly said in a July 23 commentary that Congress should pass laws requiring that sales of heavy weapons be reported to the FBI and imposing mandatory 10-year sentences on any crime committed with a gun.
"But the truth is criminals will always get guns.
However, Obama supported a tougher platform when he ran for president in 2008 that included reinstituting the assault weapons ban, stopping destruction of background check documents and closing the federal gun show loophole.
On Thursday, the Brady Campaign to strengthen gun control called for a national dialogue on solutions to gun violence, such as criminal background checks on all gun purchases.
Meanwhile, a group of law enforcement officials who have joined up against gun violation called Thursday for expanded background checks on gun sales via the Internet and weapons shows, as well as a ban on high-capacity ammunition magazines.
The NRA has labeled Obama an enemy of Second Amendment rights, and so far in the 2012 election cycle, Romney has received $126,440 from gun rights groups, compared to Obama's $2,300.
"Obama also won 17 states with significant numbers of gun owners."
Do you own a gun?
Share a photo and tell us why.