This year's co-hosts Equatorial Guinea and Gabon are the smallest nations ever to hold the event -- which is also known as AFCON -- giving rise to concerns about security, as well as travel and tourism infrastructure.
Oil-rich Equatorial Guinea and Gabon are the smallest countries ever to ever host the Africa Cup of Nations, with a combined population of just over two million.
The first time was 40 years ago in my country, Cameroon," CAF spokesman Habuba Suleiman told CNN.
But there is pressure on them to deliver a successful and safe Cup of Nations after 2010's pre-tournament tragedy in Angola -- which had only recently emerged from a civil war lasting three decades.
"When you award AFCON to places like Burkina Faso, Mali, Angola or Gabon, you find that coffers for sporting infrastructure that would be normally be difficult to open suddenly emerge and you're leaving a legacy of football infrastructure," he told CNN.
The deadly attack on Togo's team led to questions about the tournament's organization and security, but according to Gleeson, the Africa Cup of Nations can't be judged by similar standards to the World Cup or the European Championships.
Suleiman said security arrangements are the responsibility of the host nations, not the ruling body.
We are a group of peaceful people who are convinced that football has to be a factor of unity, friendship and fraternity," he told CNN.
"Finally hosting the tournament means so many opportunities for Gabon and its people," he said.
"The security in Gabon will be the best organized of any country which hosted the tournament before us.
With each new edition of the competition, the AFCON has become a factor of economic development in terms of structures and infrastructures.
"We would not have had all these beautiful stadiums in Africa without the AFCON.
In Gabon a new 40,000-seater stadium has been built in the capital Libreville, with help from the Chinese government, and will host the final.
The qualified nations are: Group A -- Equatorial Guinea, Libya, Zambia, Senegal; Group B -- Ivory Coast, Sudan, Burkina Faso, Angola; Group C -- Gabon, Niger, Morocco, Tunisia; Group D -- Ghana, Botswana, Mali, Guinea.
There is a notable list of absentees.