As Chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, McCain will hold the White House to account for what he sees as a feckless foreign policy that has enabled "genocide" in Syria, left "evil" to fill a leadership vacuum elsewhere and splintered America's moral example around the world.
Now, from his perch on Armed Services, McCain will be back where he is happiest, where the political fight is at its most intense.
He's planning to form a powerful triumvirate with Sen. Bob Corker, incoming chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and Sen. Richard Burr, the new head of the Intelligence Committee, to drive the foreign policy agenda.
In the six years since Obama beat him in the presidential race, McCain has been seething from the sidelines, prompting some to caricature him as an "angry old man" squandering a reputation for heroism and integrity.
McCain has also had some victories, helping torpedo Obama's preferred pick for secretary of state, Susan Rice, and ridiculing White House political appointees for ambassadorial posts, including a soap opera producer dispatched to Hungary.
"Countries no longer believe in American leadership, so therefore, they are making their own accommodations, not only in the Middle East but also in what used to be eastern Europe," he said.
"We are watching one of the great episodes of genocide certainly in our century," McCain said, when asked to assess Obama's Syria policy.
Some Obama aides also believe McCain never truly accepted his loss in 2008, and see him as now more interested in political fireworks than serious legislating.
I disagree with that," Obama said.
People who know McCain are not at all shocked he's still trading punches and not walking off into the Arizona sunset after a lifetime of service.
"I'm running out of time," he snapped last month,  cutting off Kerry in a five minute Foreign Relations Committee Q&A, offering a metaphor for a career approaching its final act with much left to say and do.
Former NATO ambassador Kurt Volker, who now runs Arizona State University's McCain Institute, says the senator is simply not done fighting.
He is unrelenting."
"The truth is sometimes a hard pill to swallow," McCain said on the floor.
The speech won near universal praise, especially from liberals.
"I believe in John's adage that a fight not joined is a fight not enjoyed," Kerry said.