Part-time actor Rudy Rasmussen spends much of his leisure time on stages across New Orleans.
It dates to medieval times, when both candles and keys were required at night to open the doors of a castle and cater to the needs of visiting nobles.
"Whether on business or leisure travel, no one wants to spend too much time trying to coordinate, plan, organize, et cetera," said Jeanne Mills, president of the U.S. branch of Les Clefs d'Or (The Gold Keys), an international organization of professional concierges with more than 3,000 members worldwide.
That's the message Rasmussen would like guests to know.
All major resorts and five-star hotels provide concierge services to their guests.
Mills says advanced technology is bringing more savvy travelers to the concierge desk.
"Never hesitate to go to your concierge, even if you think your request is impossible," said Breve, who has been making the impossible possible for more than 25 years, primarily as senior concierge at the Ritz-Carlton on Canal Street.
Even so, many frequent travelers say they have never ventured to the concierge desk.
Myth No.
There is no set fee for using a concierge.
Jeff Brooks, a New Jersey-based financial consultant, says most of his business travel details are worked out in-house, but he'll never forget the concierge who helped him skate off thin ice one February.
"If the concierge is getting you something that would be otherwise impossible, then you are looking at a tip of $50 or more," Haussman said.
"If you want to get their attention, it's always a good idea to tip the concierge at the start of a trip.
Reality: The concierge desk is a perk available to all hotel guests.
It's true that celebrities have been known to keep a concierge or two busy.
It took a little bit of work, but we got it together," Rasmussen said.
Passers-by thought they were filming a scene from a movie.
Having ready answers for day-to-day demands is also critical for concierge success.
Reality: They serve anyone visiting the hotel for any reason, and hotel guests can start the process upon booking.
Rasmussen says he does his best work when clients call or e-mail ahead of time.
That's when it's time to call on the concierge.