Washington (CNN) -- "Our foreign policy is just spinning out of control" one senator said.
I don't care," Kerry said when Republican Sen. John McCain of Arizona, a committee veteran, complained of what he predicted would be failed diplomatic efforts on Syria, Iran and Middle East peace.
Last September, the panel voted 10-7 in favor of a resolution authorizing President Barack Obama to launch a limited military strike on Syria intended to deter the regime of President Bashar al-Assad from using chemical weapons.
Corker and McCain called for sending weapons and other military aid to some groups in the Syrian opposition.
Obama has rejected any chance of U.S. troops joining the Syrian fight, but Kerry said the President believes arming the opposition could change the Syrian leader's "calculation" of how the conflict will proceed.
I don't think the American people were going to send American troops."
Obama had decided back then to attack, Kerry said, and the President's resolve led to the agreement brokered by Russia for Iran to turn over its chemical weapon stockpiles to international control.
The Ukraine crisis also drew criticism, with McCain accusing the administration of using "the logic of appeasement" by failing to provide military support against Russia's expansionist moves.
To Democratic Sen. Robert Menendez of New Jersey, the committee's chairman, a main topic was international talks with Iran intended to prevent Tehran from developing a nuclear weapon.
Menendez worried that the goal of the negotiations had shifted from Iran lacking any capability to enrich uranium needed to make a nuclear weapon to now maintaining some enrichment capability.
McCain said failure appeared certain for three initiatives under Kerry -- the Geneva agreement for Syrian talks, the ongoing talks on Iran's nuclear ambitions, and the Israel-Palestinian talks.
McCain rejected that, telling Kerry: "It is stopped.
"We'll see where the reality is as we go down the road here," Kerry responded.