But another debate on immigration will refocus on internal GOP splits and raise questions about whether the party is taking any of its own advice about being more open to Hispanics.
Boehner was one of the first top Republicans after Mitt Romney lost the 2012 presidential election to say that the party needed to deal with immigration.
Many Republican Party leaders and possible presidential candidates, however, say the GOP needs a more inclusive message to Hispanics if it hopes to win the White House in 2016.
The vote was largely along party lines and Republicans pressing for broader reform said that ending the Obama administration's program easing such deportations sent the wrong message.
Paul has made broadening the Republican Party's appeal a cornerstone of his message.
But Democrats have pounced on King's Iowa dust-up as well as others trying to paint the GOP as more extreme on immigration.
Echoing the same sentiment expressed by Obama, Denham said the measure was "a messaging bill" and "would never see the light of day" over in the Senate.
As part of a deal to pass a $694 million border funding bill, Boehner and his top lieutenants agreed to allow a separate vote on a measure promoted by House conservatives that went even further than Cruz's proposal.
Florida Republican Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart also voted against that bill and told CNN that the GOP proposal helps Democrats continue to use immigration as a political wedge.
But if the message is perceived to be anti-immigrant, that is very, very negative," Diaz-Balart said.
House Republicans also heard about it on the editorial page of the Wall Street Journal, which doesn't usually criticize Republicans.
"Republican support among Hispanic voters does not hinge on immigration reform but inaction.
Gutierrez said that he saw a scenario for Republicans to be on the offense if the party is able to retake control of the Senate in November.
Many Republicans interviewed by CNN said the challenge next year will be even greater because Democrats will want to use any divisions on the issue to further expand the wedge between the GOP and Latino voters going into the 2016 election.
"Just do your job -- I'm talking to Republicans and Democrats alike.
The GOP is well positioned to win control of the Senate in November, and immigration is expected to be a factor in just one key contest in Colorado, where there is a sizable number of Hispanic voters.