Washington (CNN) -- The justices on the Supreme Court know very well their rulings can send immediate political shock waves, and those just intensify in a presidential election year.
That is true of the current challenges to the health care reform law, which will be argued Monday through Wednesday.
The 2000 Bush v. Gore case ultimately settled the fight over counting Florida's ballots, giving George W. Bush the presidency.
The court under Chief Justice John Marshall clarified the Commerce Clause, concluding state law conflicted with overriding congressional power to regulate interstate commerce.
The new president in fact had asked the court to time its decision until after the election but before being sworn into office.
Historians also note the president-elect had quietly persuaded Northern Justice Robert Grier to change his vote and join the Southern majority in the Scott case, to give the impression the decision was not made along regional lines.
The justices said that did not violate federal authority over interstate commerce, nor the 13th and 14th amendments.
States responded by revising their laws, leading the court four years later, in another presidential election year, to end its moratorium and allow states to resume executions.
The companion cases first came to the court in 1970, and arguments were scheduled for 1971, then postponed until spring 1972, then reargued October 1972, a month before the presidential elections.
Stopping the tally meant Republican George W. Bush, who was then narrowly leading in the decisive state, would become president, defeating Vice President Al Gore.
Here are some presidential election years where the Supreme Court as an institution or the justices became a major campaign issue:
-- 1800: Jeffersonian Republicans aimed criticism at the Federalist-dominated high court over how much power the central government should hold.
In 1876, Democrat Samuel Tilden won the popular vote in the presidential race, with Republican Rutherford B. Hayes also trailing in the initial electoral vote.
-- 1896: The high court a year earlier had invalidated a nationwide federal income tax.
It would give Congress the power to overturn Supreme Court decisions that overturned acts of Congress.
That would allow the president to immediately name new, presumably more sympathetic, members to the court.
Warren retired a year later, and Nixon eventually named four justices to the high court.
Bush also helped move the federal judiciary to the right for decades.