(CNN) -- It all started on my second date with Alex.
On what had to be the coldest night in the history of the ball drop, we shivered next to each other waiting patiently, with a few thousand spectators, to get one year closer to the millennium.
Fireworks went off.
There was one problem: Alex is half-black.
In the back of my mind, I knew Alex's race would pose a problem for my family.
My mom, who moved to New York from Iowa, was indifferent on race but wasn't about to challenge my dad's way of thinking.
When I met Alex, it sounds corny, but I never saw a color -- I just saw Alex.
I thought that introducing him to my parents in a public place where my dad couldn't freak out was the way to go.
Then my dad walked away.
My dad lost it.
"Do you want to be a big mama ... barefoot and pregnant for the rest of your life?
In my mind, I was just dating Alex.
In my dad's mind, my life was over.
Alex's mom, a white woman from Long Island, had a troubled relationship with her own father as a result of her dating Alex's dad, a black man from Georgia.
I knew Alex was "the one," and I wasn't about to let my racist father get in the way of my happiness.
For the next eight years, I dated Alex in secret.
We even moved in together, and for years my parents were none the wiser.
I took my parents to lunch, hoping again that there would be safety in a public space.
I said I couldn't pretend I wasn't with Alex, we wanted to get married, and to be a part of my life, they had to accept it.
After eight years of tears and anxiety, my dad conceded.
I don't think he had one "aha" moment, but maybe it just took years of rolling it over in his head and realizing that his preconceived notions of what would happen to me if I dated Alex were wrong.
My dad walked me down the aisle
Alex is my family, my other half, the love of my life.
We even took a family trip to my dad's childhood home in Spain.
As we get ready to start our own family, I think about how I will explain this all to my future child (or children -- that's still up for discussion) about what we went through to be together.
The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Elizabeth Mayo.