The four men were killed in an attack this week on the U.S. Consulate in Benghazi.
But he pledged that "the United States of America will never retreat from the world."
"We will bring to justice those who took them from us," Obama said.
Those countries' leaders "need to do everything they can to restore security" in the face of anti-American protests arising from an "awful Internet video," she said.
The fourth was Sean Smith, an information management officer who also had an online alter-ego legendary in the gaming world.
Four people have been arrested in connection with the attack that left Stevens and the three other Americans dead, the top aide to the president of the Libyan parliament said Friday.
However, the government now believes the suspects are part of one of the many armed extremist groups operating especially in the eastern part of the country and Benghazi itself, he told CNN.
Asked what the Libyan government was doing to ensure security, al-Megaryef answered, "We are doing our best to avoid further attacks."
But on Thursday, three U.S. officials told CNN that they had seen no evidence the attack was premeditated.
To those that would do us harm -- no act of terror will go unpunished.
During an interview on CNNI's "Amanpour," Abushagur said Thursday that there had been one arrest early Thursday in Benghazi and that three or four others were being pursued.
Given what officials know about al Qaeda in Libya, intelligence officials believe it is very unlikely that core al Qaeda was behind the attack, a U.S. intelligence official told CNN on condition of anonymity.
Meanwhile, Shawn Turner, director of communications for U.S. National Intelligence, denied news reports that American officials had been warned of a possible attack.
Sources tracking militant Islamist groups in eastern Libya say a pro-al Qaeda group responsible for a previous armed assault on the Benghazi consulate is the chief suspect.
Rights groups have raised concerns about the Libyan legal system, which is in the early days of being rebuilt following the fall of the Gadhafi regime.
At the same time, the dominance of militia groups, "which in most towns and cities are stronger than the army and police, has complicated the rebuilding of Libya's justice system," the report says.
As the fire spread, three people -- Stevens, Foreign Service information management officer Smith, and a U.S. regional security officer -- were inside a safe room, said senior State Department officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity as a matter of practice during a briefing with reporters.
The State Department has not released details about how Stevens died, though numerous media reports have said the ambassador was taken from the consulate to the Benghazi Medical Center by locals.
Have you witnessed the attacks?