It took nearly a week to stem the spill, which sent millions of gallons of sludge from a retired power plant into a river that supplies drinking water to communities in North Carolina and neighboring Virginia.
Tests since the spill have turned up higher levels of harmful chemicals such as arsenic in the river.
Duke Energy announced last week that it found the leak in a 48-inch stormwater pipe at the retired Dan River Steam Station in Eden, North Carolina, on February 2.
Tests of the river last week revealed levels of copper, aluminum, iron and arsenic above state standards for surface water, state environmental officials said.
"It's certainly cause for concern for the long-term impacts of this coal ash spill on the health of the Dan River," he said.
State environmental officials said Sunday that arsenic levels appeared to be decreasing, but recommended avoiding prolonged direct contact with the river in the area of the spill until further notice.
Kritzer said authorities have been open about what they've found.
"I stood on the bank a day or two after the spill, and I can say that I openly cried," she said.
Now, she said, cleanup is key.
In North Carolina, authorities will investigate the coal ash spill to determine what violations occurred, Kritzer said.
Authorities were still working to develop a cleanup plan Sunday, Duke Energy spokeswoman Lisa Parrish said.
Even before last week's spill, coal ash contamination was a concern for North Carolina officials.
Parrish said Sunday that the utility is in the midst of plans to close the sites where it stores coal ash in North Carolina.
Environmental advocates say the spill is a reminder of a troubling problem that's widespread in the state: coal ash ponds storing large amounts of waste close to drinking water supplies.
In statements announcing the North Carolina spill last week, Duke Energy said up to 82,000 tons of ash had been released and up to 27 million gallons of basin water had flooded into the river.
That amount of ash, the company said, would fill up to 32 Olympic-size swimming pools.