Tunis, Tunisia (CNN) -- World powers meeting Friday in Tunisia called for a political solution in Syria and what one diplomat called a "tsunami wave" of pressure to peel away internal support for the embattled regime of Bashar al-Assad.
Representatives of dozens of countries and entities developed a plan to deliver immediate humanitarian aid, to give political legitimacy to the Syrian opposition and to endorse the idea of a joint Arab-U.N. peacekeeping force.
The state-run Syrian Arab News Agency (SANA), citing an official source at the Foreign Ministry, said Red Crescent vehicles were dispatched Friday, "for humanitarian considerations, to retrieve the foreign journalists who entered Syria illegally.
The meeting in Tunis took place as Syrian security forces continued a nearly year-long crackdown on civilian protesters.
SANA said terrorists shot and killed a law enforcement member and wounded two others Friday in Homs.
"It is quite ironic that in a conference called 'The Friends of Syria,' we haven't seen one Syrian delivering a speech," said an anchor, who added that the conference was dominated by "icons from the colonial era who are conspiring against Syria and the Arab world."
Clinton also said the "crimes against humanity must stop."
"Assad can still make the choice to end the violence, save lives and spare his country from descending further into ruin but, if he continues to reject that choice, we and the Syrian people will keep pressure on him until his deadly regime cracks and collapses, because it will," she said.
"Their refusal to continue this slaughter will make them heroes in the eyes of not only Syrians, but people of conscience everywhere.
Clinton said she would address the issue later.
"We are going to continue to keep the pressure up and look for every tool available to prevent the slaughter of innocents in Syria," he said.
The nations participating in the meeting unveiled a plan for delivering emergency aid.
"To those Syrians who still support Assad, especially members of the Syrian military: understand that this regime has no future," Clinton said.
"The Syrian people have not surrendered, nor will they give up," SNC leader Burhan Ghalioun said. "
The diplomat said the conference communique will endorse the Arab League's request to the Security Council to form a joint Arab-U.N. peacekeeping force after the cessation of violence.