CNN spoke with "The Walking Dead" showrunner Glen Mazzara about the themes and motivations prevalent in season three, what to expect in the second half and the joys of writing while listening to Prince.
We have a very accelerated pace of storytelling, where we're trying to pack as much story into every episode, and yet, spending a lot of time developing our characters.
No place is safe; that's something that's really important.
CNN: Speaking of the knife's edge, Michonne and The Governor were two highly anticipated characters at the start of this season.
That's something she's used as a model for Michonne -- the strength of the women who suffered great abuses yet carried on.
I'm really proud of the work that she's doing.
David Morrissey is an incredibly talented actor who is just interested in finding new layers and nuance to this character.
And The Governor wants history to be written about him.
CNN: The fight scene between The Governor and Michonne in episode eight ("Made to Suffer") is pretty brutal.
CNN: Episode eight also saw the introduction of another new character, Tyreese (Chad Coleman), who's probably best known for his role on "The Wire."
He said, "If you could get Chad, that would be great."
Do the actors have a different take on killing other actors versus zombies?
...
For example, episode seven ("When the Dead Come Knocking") was the first time Rick had met Michonne.
You could see that there's a lot of work that the actors do on their own characters, and we as writers listen and incorporate those dynamics into the scripts.
The way that the show's been written in the third season is that the characters become more comfortable with killing because they are so used to killing the dehumanized walkers.
The audience knows that Rick and his group are a bunch of good-hearted survivors, but yet it's very possible for The Governor to portray them as blood-thirsty murderers to the people of Woodbury because that's what they were.
But we'll see a lot more nuanced character drama and some real interesting personal dilemmas for these characters.
I was listening to a lot of Prince.
Listening to Prince is listening to a lot of different types of eclectic music.
Mazzara: Maybe.