Tijuana, Mexico (CNN) -- Part of the fence separating the United States and Mexico sits about 50 yards away from hundreds of tunnel-like holes and makeshift tents where people live, stuck between two countries.
Yet, an estimated 4,000 people call this place home, a stretch known as "El Bordo," or "the border," wedged along the U.S.-Mexico border.
Miranda and the others living in El Bordo are stuck in between two countries and their laws.
Miranda was sent back to Mexico in 2011, one of 2 million people who have been deported since President Obama took office.
That was the case for 37-year-old Miguel Valdez, who was in the United States legally just last week.
Valdez has been wandering the unfamiliar streets of this foreign city for days, unable to find food, a job or a place to sleep.
"It just feels the gate itself is so far away, even if I'm standing right next to it," Valdez said, staring at the border separating him from the United States.
His home, as he calls it, isn't much of a home but rather a deep hole in the ground cleverly built with trash and dirt.
Since his deportation in April 2011 -- the result of a traffic stop -- Miranda has lived in the slums of the Tijuana River canal.
After having lived in the United States for 25 years, Miranda had a home, a job and, most important, a family: a wife and four children, all American citizens.
The deportees have to hide underground to evade local authorities, and for them this is the safest place in Tijuana.
Instead of having laws that protect us, they make life even harder for us.
I don't like it at all," Miranda said.
Mexico doesn't want you, and the U.S. sure as hell doesn't want you," said Hector Barajas, an activist and deportee who lives in a shelter outside Tijuana and advocates for those living in El Bordo.
"They look at you as a criminal, a drug addict and stuff like that," Barajas said.
You look like you're homeless.
He doesn't hide the fact that some of the deportees living at El Bordo are heroin addicts.
You can't walk through El Bordo without seeing the open usage of heroin, the dirty needles stuck behind ears like pencils and, more horrifying, others sharing them on the filthy concrete.
"Why?
Where?"
Back at El Bordo, Miranda wastes no time counting down the days until he returns home.
"I am just waiting for the right time to leave, just the right opportunity to cross over.
360° weeknights 8pm ET.