(RollingStone.com) -- Save for some bit roles in a smattering of unremarkable TV shows, the world hasn't heard much from Ben Savage since 2000.
Titled "Girl Meets World," the spinoff series, which is set to begin shooting in February and will air on the Disney Channel, stars both Savage and Danielle Fishel (as his wife, Topanga Lawrence) and follows the couple's experience raising a 13-year-old daughter.
What has life been like since the Girl Meets World announcement?
.
Savage: Well, it was very nice.
As important as it is to a lot of fans and a lot of people who watched our show, it's just as important to me after all this time.
RS: Apparently it was a big part of Snooki's and Brooklyn Decker's, as well.
I know a lot of people grew up with that show.
And so, to a lot of people, this show means a lot.
We were just having fun on that show.
The writers were a lot of fun.
It was just a fun experience.
I think people can really appreciate a show with a good message, but one that does that with some humor.
But I think that everyone associated with the show wanted to make sure that if we were to come back, that we weren't going to do it in a way that was going to be a disservice to the show.
.
I think it was just a matter of making sure all of us were on the same page about what we were going to do in terms of making the show last another seven years, hopefully.
But Danielle and I had definitely had a lot of discussions of what we wanted to do, and if we were both onboard.
Savage: We're going to wait and see what happens.
RS: We'd like to see a return of Lee Norris' Stuart Minkus.
Why not?
RS: Some people are worried the show will be a bust.
And that we shouldn't do it because it's going to ruin a lot of their childhood memories.
But we're really working hard and doing everything we can to make sure that this is going to be something special and funny, and hopefully it'll make new memories for a new generation.
RS: Maybe you can draw from your experiences as an uncle for the role.
You just get to stick around for the fun pasts.
Savage: We're working on that right now.
I'll just say, again, going back to our favorite word, it's always very flattering when people recognize me.