This week, the namesake waterway of the nation's second-largest city opened for unrestricted public recreation for the first time since the 1930s -- when devastating floods prompted officials to close public access to the river and pave its banks with concrete to improve storm drainage, officials said.
"My experience was, 'wow,'" said Raymond, who plied the waters as a representative of the Los Angeles River Expeditions and the Los Angeles Kayak Club.
Except for guerrilla kayaking by river lovers such as Raymond and others in the expedition club, the concrete-lined river has been strictly off-limits since the Depression era because the river is technically an Army Corps of Engineers flood control channel, officials said.
In this recreation zone, the public can launch a kayak, canoe or other nonmotorized boat without a permit or cost, said spokesman Dash Stolarz of the Mountains Recreation and Conservation Authority, which manages the pilot recreation zone.
Raymond, who's in her 40s, compared the Los Angeles River to New York City's Hudson and East rivers, where she took up kayaking.
In 2010, however, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency declared it a "traditional navigable water," allowing for Clean Water Act protections, officials said.
"People were downright giddy to get into a kayak on the Los Angeles River," he said.
Alissa Walker, a blogger who wrote about her experience Monday, said she was among a small group of enthusiasts who received federal permits last year for trips on another stretch of the river just to prove it was safe.
"You never would have guessed we were in L.A.
And it didn't smell, which many people worried about," she said.
For the past two years, another portion of the Los Angeles River has been open to kayakers for short periods in the summer, but access was strictly limited under permits from the Army Corps of Engineers.
About a decade ago, local AM radio shock jocks mocked Reyes' grand vision to revitalize the river: his school-age daughter even came home upset, Reyes said.
They can truly identify a river in the city, he said.
"Today, it's a front yard," Reyes declared.