Myrlie Evers-Williams and Sybrina Fulton are two great women whose achievements demand our attention.
Evers-Williams is the widow of Medgar Evers, the iconic civil rights leader who served as the field secretary for the NAACP in Mississippi.
Evers' murder received national attention and was a factor leading to the passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.
Following her husband's death, Evers-Williams emerged as a civil rights leader in her own right, serving as chairwoman of the NAACP in 1995 and helping to revive what was then a financially troubled, debt-ridden civil rights organization.
Evers-Williams served on the NAACP board for 30 years and was awarded the organization's Spingarn medal, served as editor of "The Autobiography of Medgar Evers: A Hero's Life and Legacy Revealed Through His Writings, Letters, and Speeches", and through the establishment of the Medgar and Myrlie Evers Institute, she has kept his legacy alive.
Three years ago, on February 26, 2012, Fulton's son, Trayvon Martin, was shot to death by George Zimmerman, a self-proclaimed neighborhood watch volunteer in Sanford, Florida.
Sybrina Fulton realized the need to fight not only for justice for her own son, but also for other families and their children as well.
"We have to speak out for those people, just like Trayvon, and just like Dr. King, and just like Medgar; they were sacrifices for better lives in a better world."
Zimmerman's lawyers did not raise the stand your ground defense at trial, but a juror admitted the jury had discussed the law before acquitting him.
I feel like I just have to do my part," Fulton said.
Whether during the Jim Crow era or 21st century America, the lives of black people have been under siege, their bodies devalued.
The two black women both have faced a fight against what the Rev.
However, today the country is witnessing a backlash against progress, with a rollback of the civil rights legislation of the 1960s, restrictions on the right to vote, and gun laws that endanger black lives such as that of Trayvon Martin.
Meanwhile, in the midst of a nascent, multiracial #BlackLivesMatter movement led by black women, Myrlie Evers-Williams and Sybrina Fulton continue the struggle and teach a new generation of leaders.
And great women lead and transform the world.