CNN: What happens in the body when someone experiences carsickness or motion sickness?
If there is some sort of mismatch between your senses, say your eyes are telling you that you're moving -- or not -- and your ears are telling you [the opposite] and for some reason they're not connecting, you start to get what's called disequilibrium, or motion sickness.
Gupta: Certainly there are certain things that are designed to do that, big theaters where you feel like you're moving but you're actually stationary in a chair, IMAX theaters for example.
Gupta: You know it's funny, I think that probably anybody could get motion sickness.
Gupta: People who have some sort of inner ear problem, we know that that can be an issue.
Gupta: It is an awful feeling.
And it is all those things: I get sweaty, I feel really sick to my stomach, I feel like I'm going to throw up, I can't think straight, I can't even talk on the phone at that time because any kind of stimulus just really throws me off.
But you get a lot of starting and stopping and that can make it a lot worse.
I'll drive even in New York, because I don't get sick when I drive.
Sometimes I will eat something that's calming on my stomach beforehand so I at least don't get the nausea associated with it.
If I get there, if I allow myself to get to the point where I'm motion sick, then I'm pretty much toast.
Gupta: I do that because you're able to look at those things moving around you, you have much more window space, you're able to have a sense of what the driver's doing.
Motion sickness is something that people -- if you're particularly bothered by it -- might resort to a Dramamine patch, or something like that to get rid of the symptoms, but to have it not actually occur in the first place is a pretty difficult thing to do, particularly through training.
And they were absolutely right, because I tried not to, for the first 30 minutes of the ride, and I was miserable.
For the diaphoresis and the sweating and all that, they're not going to help you that much.
But they do the same thing, they sort of quiet your stomach, quiet some of the symptoms associated with motion sickness but they don't really take care of the cause of it in the first place.
My younger one, I know, is prone to motion sickness, and she wants to watch the DVD, but it's the worst thing you can do.
Get as much fresh air as much as possible.
And get the kids and elderly people in particular out of the car as much as possible.