African immigrants to the United States say cartoonish caricatures and a Western media penchant for reporting on Africa's disease, hunger and war -- rather than the continent's successes -- trivialize their cultures.
"I have been laughed at because of my accent and asked all the ignorant questions," said iReporter Ajah-Aminata N'daw, 25, of Fall River, Massachusetts.
She works in a hair-braiding salon and has met African-Americans who share her values of hard work and family, but in most cases, "we are raised differently, taught different values and held up to a different moral code."
"I came down from South Africa and so many people thought that maybe that's a jungle or maybe I'd go out chasing lions or something like that," he said.
African, black students find common ground at Mississippi school »
Before Craig visited the continent in 2005 and 2006, he thought of Africans as "half-naked, running around with tigers in the jungle," Craig said, confessing he was unaware tigers roam only Asia.
If the Western media are doing Africans no favors, then the African media are also a disservice to African-Americans because it portrays them as criminals, some immigrants say.
In Athens, Ezeamuzie found his ideals at odds with those who shared his skin color at Clarke Central High School, his first stint in a public school.
Ezeamuzie didn't understand why so few black students were in his advanced-placement classes.
One classmate called him a traitor and asked, "Do you not like black people?"
He relaxed his British-trained tongue and tried out for the basketball team, the 6-foot-5 Ezeamuzie said.
They saw me a little differently, but I was thinking this is a very narrow mindset," Ezeamuzie said.
iReport: Read about questions Ezimora faced when she came to the U.S.
Mohammed emigrated from Somalia in 1998 and is now naturalized.
Their objectives are often advancing their education or finding good jobs, Mohammed said.
However, African immigrants find that education and good jobs elude their African-American brethren, and there is a perception that many African-American men aren't committed to supporting their families, Mohammed said.
iReporter Emeka Aniukwu, 35, hails from Ebenebe, Nigeria, and said he has heard all the American misperceptions about Africa, but the cure to ignorance is communication.
iReport: Read why Aniukwu loves Africa-Americans
Mohammed, too, said he'd like to see more African-Americans dispelling myths about Africa, which is increasingly important as Africans in the U.S. begin wielding more economic influence.
The chamber estimates African immigrants have about $50 billion in annual purchasing power.
Mohammed said Africans can learn much about politics from African-Americans because of their "level of influence in Washington."
iReport: Read how Goredenna embraces both cultures