When school starts in August, it will be her last year to think about high school classes, advanced placement tests and calculus.
After 13 years of teaching high-level math, she has a tested stable of learning methods that helped all her students pass the AP calculus exam.
"I really thought I was going to be that teacher, 65 years old and retiring from the education field.
Once she made a budget, she realized she didn't make enough money to cover her expenses and save for her future.
DeRegnaucourt isn't the only one.
Her colleagues have waited until just before school starts to learn what courses they'll be teaching, she said.
"Five years ago, 10 years ago, kids would ask me, should they become teachers?
DeRegnaucourt hopes to spend a couple of more years learning, then work in emergency care nursing to gain experience.
DeRegnaucourt: When my son was 6 years old, the school system that he was in in Georgia, it did not allow the teacher to take her planning days unless she could find a volunteer sub.
I'll take every single one of your days.
It was time for me to go back to school.
DeRegnaucourt: I was not a good student in high school.
When I went back to school, my first math class was pre-pre-college math ... you didn't even get a grade for it, you just got pass or fail.
I had been out of school for 11 years.
DeRegnaucourt: I didn't take Ms. Sifton for granted.
What I have found is most people aren't awful at math, even if math is not your strength.
The majority of the really, really amazing techniques I have came from students.
He came up to me, "Ms. D, we're just learning and learning and learning.
He said, "I think we need to go to the boards."
Every day, except on test days, my kids go to the board (to work math problems in front of each other).
In those thoughts, I came to the realization that the money I make isn't enough.
You just never know what the future holds.
I could easily pass those; it's math.
DeRegnaucourt: My students were the first ones to know.
One student comes to mind: Just the other day, he e-mailed and asked me to call him.
They know what it's like to have a teacher who doesn't know what they're doing.
We all have.
I want them to get a love not of mathematics, just knowledge, just learning.