"I already feel like I spend too much time online.
But many of my closest friends are on the East Coast or in Europe, so by the time I get my kids in bed, it's too late to call.
Inspired by my conversation with Leda, I sorted my Twitter buddies so that the people I loved most were in a special group.
Online conversation can be a great boon to your friendships, but only if you organize your online socializing around the kinds of relationships -- and that specific people -- that matter to you.
Before I had kids, I spent hours on the phone every week and stayed in regular contact with half a dozen good friends.
Focusing my phone time on my oldest and dearest friend means that when we talk, we can actually have a meaningful conversation about the latest chapter in our lives, rather than using an hour to catch up on news highlights.
"You're friends on Facebook," my husband reminded me.
The fastest way to erode your commitment to the relationships that matter to you is to confuse that long list of buddies you have on Facebook, Twitter or LinkedIn with actual people you know and love.
Whether you move every year or plan on living in one place your whole life, an imaginary move is a great way of focusing your email, chat and Facebook time on the people who you love most.
As we compared notes on our jobs, kids and sex lives (like I said, close friends), I found myself looking wistfully at the table next to hours, where four women made up a "Sex and the City" quartet huddled in an intimate conversation.
Know the balance of friendship types and friendship time that makes you happy, and you'll be better able to create that social life by cultivating current or new relationships online.
Maybe you'd like to spend more time with your BFF, but your husband finds her husband dead boring.
The secret to a satisfying social life online doesn't lie in which network you join or how cool your profile page looks -- it's about using social networks to reflect and amplify the way you connect with your friends.
.
Subscribe now!