Washington (CNN) -- Attorney General Eric Holder made clear Thursday that the Obama administration recognizes the authority of federal courts, including the Supreme Court, to rule on whether the 2010 health care reform law or any other laws passed by Congress are constitutional.
Obama and the White House have since attempted to clarify the president's initial comments, which were in response to a reporter's question about the Supreme Court's three days of hearings on the health care law last week.
However, Holder's letter made clear that the substance of Obama's remarks were in line with the administration's recognition that the high court has the power of judicial review.
A day after the president's initial remarks, the three Republican-appointed appellate judges held a hearing on a challenge to the health care law from physician-owned hospitals.
So I want to be sure that you're telling us that the attorney general and the Department of Justice do recognize the authority of the federal courts through unelected judges to strike acts of Congress or portions thereof in appropriate cases."
Holder's letter Thursday offered repeated deference to the power of the federal courts.
"First, Holder (in the letter) says that we have an argument courts can't hear this case.
"It's a respectful letter, but it has an element of, 'What are you talking about, the president never said that.'
"
"The point I was making is that the Supreme Court is the final say on our Constitution and our laws, and all of us have to respect it, but it's precisely because of that extraordinary power that the court has traditionally exercised significant restraint and deference to our duly elected legislature, our Congress," Obama said.
The fact that this president does not appear to feel similarly constrained to respect their independence doesn't change that one bit.
Carney said it was "preposterous" to suggest Obama does not respect the power of courts to rule on the constitutionality of legislation.
"It was like he (the judge) was giving a homework assignment to an unprepared student," said one right-leaning lawyer, who opposes the health care law.
The Supreme Court held three days of oral arguments on the health care last week.