Cairo (CNN) -- Hours after being declared his nation's first democratically elected president, Mohamed Morsi vowed late Sunday to represent all Egyptians, and he urged his countrymen to put aside their differences and come together for the common good.
Earlier in the day, election officials announced Morsi earned more than 13 million votes in last week's presidential election, while Ahmed Shafik -- the last prime minister to serve under Mubarak -- had more than 12 million.
That worked out to just under 52% of the vote for Morsi, while Shafik got just over 48%, officials said.
Are you there?
Manal Koshkani told CNN from a Cairo hotel that she and others "fear" the direction the Islamist party, the Muslim Brotherhood, could take Egypt.
Yet Morsi, who resigned from the Muslim Brotherhood and its Freedom and Justice Party shortly after the results were announced in an apparent effort to send a message that he will represent all Egyptians, said late Sunday that he is "in charge" thanks to the vote, while stressing he must answer to the people.
Among others, his victory raised questions about how it might affect Egypt's relations with Israel.
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, in a statement Sunday, said, "Israel appreciates the democratic process in Egypt and respects the results of the presidential elections.
And well before the official announcement, the two candidates both used social media to declare victory -- a claim they repeated, once again, early Sunday.
Even then, the head of the Supreme Presidential Election Commission kept people waiting -- after beginning 45 minutes later than expected, he took 45 minutes before finally announcing Morsi the victor.
Earlier, the White House issued a statement calling on Morsi "to take steps at this historic time to advance national unity by reaching out to all parties and constituencies," including respecting the rights of women and religious minorities such as Coptic Christians.
And even after Morsi's win, the political situation remains very much unsettled amid lingering questions about whether the military will loosen its grip on power.
Wrote Wael Ghonim, the then-Google executive who helped organize the 2011 revolution, on Twitter: "The first elected civilian Egyptian president in the history of modern Egypt.
The revolution continues."