Like many public schools, his doesn't provide cups.
"The standard recommendations are for children to get 6-8 glasses of water per day.
"Mild dehydration can affect learning as well as mental and physical performance."
According to the new federal law, school districts will have to provide water in student eating areas, but the law doesn't discuss accessibility.
Vista Middle School outside Los Angeles has approximately 1,700 students and four water fountains in the student eating area.
Miami-Dade County Public Schools do not.
Broward County Public Schools, in Fort Lauderdale, says drinking cups aren't provided unless a student asks for one.
Hillsborough County school district in Tampa says it does not provide cups of water and there is usually one water fountain in student eating areas.
According to the California Food Policy Advocates, filling cups is "likely a slow process at most water fountains."
It's called a water intervention -- a five-week research program that includes a water filter and cups for five schools in the Los Angeles school district, provided free from the UCLA/RAND project.
Fill five-gallon jugs.
"We've seen students really gravitate towards the water out here and fill up their cups right before and after lunch to hydrate" says Burt Cowgill, the project manager.
Now that the research has ended, it's up to the school district to continue funding if it so chooses, but the Los Angeles Unified School District says it cannot afford the estimated $1.8 million to $2.3 million annually it says it would cost to provide the cups and water for the entire district.
Researchers in Germany found that by installing a cooled, filtered water fountain with plain or optionally carbonated water, providing children with water bottles, educating them on the importance of drinking water and encouraging them to fill up their water bottles, they were able to reduce the risk of children becoming overweight by 31%.
David Binkle, deputy director of Los Angeles school district food services, would like the federal government to help pay for water instead of only mandating that water be made available.
"I wouldn't really drink water because it's sort of hard to be eating your meal and then stop and go drink water at the water fountain," she said.
Students have been drinking water from water fountains for decades, but research shows that children are not getting enough water throughout the day.
"I see how much the kids really like the water," she says.