(CNN) -- At the launch party for Facebook executive Sheryl Sandberg's controversial new book, "Lean In," New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg complained only half jokingly that the book -- which hit Amazon.com's best seller list well ahead of its March 11 release -- is doing way better than his book did.
More specifically: How women navigate life as they inch their way toward a fair and equal share of roles in a still male-dominated workplace and in the home space.
Some women -- many who haven't read it -- have slammed it as elitist or as placing the burden of change too much on women and not enough on workplaces.
I've been an activist for women for decades, so I'm thrilled that a top female corporate leader has declared her intention to energize a new wave of women's advancement.
And why hasn't the workplace caught up to the needs of the women who have been flooding into it for years now?
Organizational structures of workplaces were, after all, designed originally by men, for men with wives at home caring for the kids, the old folks, and the house.
In today's world of two-earner families, businesses that don't shift to accommodate to families' needs -- such as paid sick leave flexible enough to permit caring for children and elders -- are not only dysfunctional, they lose their women workers.
It is time for women to stand up to seize this moment, as sure to wreak havoc with prevailing norms as the Second Wave feminism that inspired me in the 1960s to morph from real West Texas housewife (I mean really real -- three kids by age 20 and no employable skills) to college student to volunteer women's activist to a full-out career.
I call it Sister Courage, and like-minded men are welcome to join.
That doesn't mean being unkind.
It does mean not backing off.
If women quit arguing and work toward systemic changes together, we can retool the workplace for a successful 21st century.
If we don't?
Editor's note: Join CNN Opinion on Facebook for a live discussion about women and the workplace on Tuesday from noon to 1 p.m.