(CNN) -- Foxconn, the high-profile electronics company that builds Apple's iPhone and other products in China, is back in the headlines after workers rioted at its Taiyaun factory.
Although employees at Apple and Foxconn are treated very differently, the two companies are known for keeping their workers and others in the dark.
One meaning of openness refers to transparency, with a company making available pertinent information to stakeholders such as customers, employees, business partners and shareholders.
I believe a company can benefit by sharing some of its intellectual property given the right conditions.
To begin, Apple is more transparent than one might think.
Like all companies it has four major stakeholders: customers, employees, business partners and shareholders.
And as Apple continues to lag well behind Android in market share, eventually it will be forced to be more open with consumers, as well.
Rather it is purely in aid of ensuring secrecy of its product strategy with customers.
But increasingly Apple pays a price for this employee secrecy.
In terms of its supply chain, Apple itself has huge transparency and visibility.
This is an enormous problem for Apple, not just for its reputation, but also the disruptions such working conditions can cause in the supply chain.
As for transparency with its shareholders, Apple is actually very open -- respected as being one of the best companies on the planet for providing shareholders with pertinent information.
It is a design and marketing company at the heart of an enormous business web of suppliers and software developers -- based on openness.
Android, the open-source software platform developed by Google, quickly became the dominant operating system in the mobile marketplace.
Apple also has failed miserably in terms of sharing within society and the global community.
It is sitting on $100 billion in cash but during the Jobs era made little effort to be a good corporate citizen and reach out to the larger community.
It has started to make more donations and is joining social causes, which will prove popular with its customers, especially with young people who increasingly want to do business with companies that behave well.
And increasingly as it comes under more intense competitive pressures, Apple will need to become an even more open company.