(CNN) -- The first thing offered to me at Suntory's Yamazaki whiskey distillery -- the birthplace of Japanese whiskey -- is a glass of water.
"The distillery was built here almost 100 years ago for the legendary water," says Makoto Sumita, who's been with Suntory for 20 years, as we walk past a pond to the tasting room.
My first was a Hibiki 17, on a first date in Hong Kong two years ago (I was latecomer).
Despite a prominent display of Scotch (Nocturne stocks 150 different whiskeys), Lee says his customers overwhelmingly seek out Japanese selections.
The 21st-century ascendancy of Japanese whiskies recalls the Judgment of Paris, the 1976 blind-tasting wine competition in which California wines were rated the best in every category for the first time, sending shock waves throughout the Francophile wine world.
It started in 2001, when Nikka's Yoichi 10 was named "Best of the Best" by Whisky Magazine.
At the International Spirit Challenge 2013 held in the UK, Suntory was named "Distiller of the Year" for the third time and its blended Hibiki 21 Years Old won the Trophy prize, the highest award in the competition's World Whiskeys category.
Yoichi.
The most highly regarded Japanese whiskeys (the exception being Ichiro's Chichibu) are produced by the distilleries of Japan's great rivals, Suntory and Nikka.
That's when Suntory founder Shinjiro Torii hired Masataka Taketsuru, the godfather of Japanese whiskey, to set up the country's first whiskey distillery.
Unlike the bastions of Scotland's finest, the Yamazaki distillery is one of the few in the world that can produce a variety of whiskeys from the same distillery, thanks to the different shapes and sizes of the distillery's pot stills.
The tour finishes at the beautifully rendered whiskey library, bar and gift shop where visitors can purchase varieties sold only on site -- including extremely rare single cask whiskeys -- in addition to the usual Suntory offerings.
What a different world it is.
The focus of the tour is emphatically on Taketsuru's astonishing story.
While a Nikka whiskey may be closer to Scotch than say, a Yamazaki, Japanese whiskeys are still much sweeter and more fragrant than their overseas counterparts, with even the most peaty varieties still balanced.
Drinkers of Islay Scotches might enjoy the Single Malt Yoichi Peaty and Salty available at the distillery.
Nikka Yoichi Distillery, 7-6 Kurokawacho, Yoichimachi, Yoichigun, Hokkaido, Japan; +81 135 23 3131; 9 a.m.-5 p.m.; closed Christmas and New Year's holiday; free guided tours in Japanese, visitors can do a self-guided tour with free English maps.