Rock Hill, South Carolina (CNN)A long walk for justice will end soon for nine African-American men who pioneered the "jail, no bail" strategy during the lunch counter protests of the civil rights movement.
Lunch counter protests had become the cause celebre the year before, in 1960, just two hours up the road in Greensboro, North Carolina.
The men of Friendship College wondered whether paying fines and bail -- to the very people who were oppressing them, no less -- was the best course of action.
Rather than pay the $100 for their release, the men felt they could make a more profound statement by accepting the full punishment for trespassing: 30 days of hard labor.
On the evening of January 30, 1961, Clarence Graham, a student at Friendship and civil rights organizer, sat down to write a letter to his parents.
They were ready on the morning of January 31, 1961, and just after 11 a.m., they arrived at McCrory's 5-10-25 cent Variety Store in downtown Rock Hill.
"Try to understand that what I am doing is right," Graham wrote to his parents before his arrest.
Nine of the men chose the labor camp.
One chose the fine.
The men were shipped out to the York County Prison Farm to begin their sentences, but according to local news reports, many of the Friendship Nine were sent to solitary confinement.
Author Kimberly Johnson, who wrote a children's book about the men, "No Fear for Freedom," was integral in getting the Friendship Nine's case on the court docket.
Martin Luther King Jr. addressing how demonstrators arrested for nonviolent protests weren't disobedient in the broad sense of the word, but rather, "just being disobedient to the immorality of what that law represented," she began thinking about what she could do to help vindicate the Friendship Nine, she said.
"A pardon is an act of forgiveness, and what these guys needed wasn't forgiveness because they didn't do anything wrong.
Here's a little about them from James Felder, author of "Civil Rights in South Carolina: From Peaceful Protests to Groundbreaking Rulings":
He is now retired and living in Florence, South Carolina.
He is now retired and lives in Pennsylvania.
-- W.T.
-- Robert McCullough, the valedictorian of his high school before going to Friendship, was known by many as "brilliant" and was a natural leader for the group.
After college, he volunteered for the Army and came home to Rock Hill after his service and started a business.
He practiced law in Columbia, South Carolina, before retiring in Rock Hill.
He has retired from full-time work but still works as a substitute teacher at Rock Hill schools.
CNN's Victor Blackwell and Eliott C. McLaughlin contributed to this report.