(CNN) -- A testy exchange erupted on Thursday between Sen. John McCain and Joint Chiefs Chairman Gen. Martin Dempsey during the latter's testimony about September's deadly attack on the U.S. diplomatic mission in Benghazi, Libya.
McCain said a base in Crete was just 90 minutes away.
"We could have placed forces there," he said.
"I'm not blaming the State Department," Dempsey responded.
In response to a question from Sen. Kelly Ayotte, R-New Hampshire, Defense Secretary Leon Panetta said he was aware of a cable sent in August by Ambassador Stevens that said security in Benghazi was not adequate.
"Unfortunately, there was no specific intelligence or indications of an imminent attack on that -- U.S. facilities in Benghazi," Panetta said.
"That's the State Department's responsibility."
In the months since the attacks, Washington has been a center of debate about how much the State Department had known about threats in the region and whether, after the attacks, the administration tried to mislead the public about its nature.
In his remarks, Panetta said the initial reports of the attack were given "almost immediately" to the U.S. Embassy in the Libyan capital of Tripoli.
Obama ordered that the Defense Department respond to the attack with "all available DOD assets" and try to protect U.S. personnel, Panetta said.
Graham asked.
"Did anybody leave any base anywhere to go to the aid of the people under attack in Benghazi, Libya, before the attack ended?"
"Some have asked why other types of armed aircraft were not dispatched to Benghazi," he said.
Within hours, Panetta said, that six-person team, including two U.S. military personnel, chartered a plane and flew to Benghazi.
Within 15 minutes of arriving at the annex facility, they came under attack by mortar and rocket-propelled grenades, he said.
Panetta noted that Congress, too, plays a role in the security of the nation's diplomatic missions, and that the Department of Defense faces the prospect of sequestration -- which would result in billions of dollars of cutbacks to the Defense budget -- on March 1.
The defense secretary's testimony comes a few weeks after Clinton told lawmakers that the State Department was moving fast to beef up security at U.S. posts worldwide.
Sean Smith, the fourth American killed, was an information management officer.