Beijing (CNN) -- At first glance, Chinese President Xi Jinping enters 2014 as the country's most powerful and popular leader in recent memory.
With all the apparent political capital and personal charisma at his disposal, is Xi strong enough to launch bold reform amid slowing economic growth and rising public discontent?
State media has cited the trial and conviction last year of former high-flying politician Bo Xilai -- though called politically motivated by Bo supporters -- as one prime example of Xi's determination.
Pointing to a series of recent orders to ban official extravagance -- from banquets to year-end gifts -- as well as Xi's visit to the steamed bun eatery, Han says the new leader is taking a leaf out of the late chairman's book.
However, economist Mao Yushi -- no relation to Chairman Mao -- says Xi has failed to address the roots of corruption.
Most noticeably, though, the Chinese military last November declared an air defense identification zone (ADIZ) in the East China Sea that includes the disputed islands.
"Abe's shrine visit has given Xi the perfect excuse to project his power both at home and abroad," said Hu Jia, one of China's most prominent human rights activists, who was imprisoned for more than three years for his advocacy.
Before Maoists could finish savoring the news of Xi bowing in front of Mao's preserved body in his mausoleum and praising the late chairman on his anniversary, the president reportedly made no mention of Mao in his extensive remarks to senior government advisers on New Year's Eve and emphasized "liberating our thoughts" instead.
The second three decades started in the late 1970s when late paramount leader Deng Xiaoping launched economic reform and re-opened the country to the outside world -- a period marked by breakneck economic growth as well as rising social tensions brought by a widening income gap and rampant corruption.
"Maoists are his biggest threats because they are against reform and opening-up, which they consider to be a path of capitalist exploitation," he said.
Other than an ambiguous notion of fulfilling the great Chinese Dream, it seems that Xi hasn't given clear answers to these challenging questions.
And as divisions in Chinese society grow deeper, time may not be on his side -- and the future of 1.3 billion people is at stake.