Egypt's latest cease-fire proposal, clearly coordinated with (and accepted by Israel), can't get us there -- at least not yet.
Sooner or later, Israel and Hamas will once again find themselves back in bitter confrontation.
There's no real end state to this confrontation, in large part because of the diametrically opposed objectives of Israel and Hamas, a resistance organization whose very being depends on continued confrontation.
In a perverse way, Hamas and Israel serve one another's needs.
Israel doesn't want to launch a ground incursion, let alone reoccupy Gaza; and Israeli strikes are hurting Hamas -- and Gazans too -- while Hamas rockets are unable to inflict serious damage on Israel.
Turkey has influence with Hamas, but its ties with Israel are too rocky.
The Qataris do have close ties with Hamas and might play a role, particularly as bankers to pay thousands of Hamas employees, a key Hamas demand.
In 2012, you had a Muslim Brotherhood government in Egypt, led by Mohamed Morsy, that maintained very close relations with Hamas.
His rise to power occurred against the backdrop of what he perceived to be an existential threat from the Islamists.
He must be sensitive to the civilian casualties in Gaza, which can create political trouble on the Egyptian street, empower Egyptian Islamists, and force him to blast Israel, which he doesn't want to do.
Hamas entered the conflict badly weakened by a terrible economic situation in Gaza.
It has at least three demands: release prisoners picked up in the recent Israeli West Bank sweep; open up Rafah and eliminate other restrictions on moving people and goods; and pay salaries for thousands of Hamas employees.
And a broader agreement that really guarantees long-term stability, with a real economic opening in Gaza and a formal truce between Israel and Hamas, just doesn't seem possible now.
Hamas will lose the political battle too if Israel accepts Egypt's offer and it doesn't.
And nobody -- least of all the people of Gaza -- can afford that.