From a white lie about time spent as a customer service rep to a whopper about earning an MBA, résumé padding occurs regularly across industries, experts say.
The discovery that Yahoo CEO Scott Thompson does not have a bachelor's degree in accounting and computer science (he has a bachelor of science degree in business administration, with a major in accounting) makes him the latest executive to be targeted for falsely claiming to have a degree.
In the wake of the allegation, made by shareholder firm Third Point, Yahoo removed all references to Thompson's degree from his biography on its website and said the error "in no way alters that fact that Mr. Thompson is a highly qualified executive with a successful track record leading large consumer technology companies."
"Thompson has a degree in accounting, not computer science, but frankly at this point in his career does it really matter what he studied as an undergraduate?"
On the other hand, Bausch & Lomb's Ronald Zarrella offered to resign when it was discovered that he had not earned his MBA from NYU, as he'd claimed.
Résumé padding has become a point of increasing concern for companies big and small, prompting them to step up screening methods and background checks for job applicants, according to HireRight's Employment Screening Benchmarking Report.
"Even where lies may not represent a huge loss to the employer, companies report that catching a candidate in an untruth undermines confidence and credibility."
People see job postings for which they feel they have the right experience but not the requisite degree, prompting them to fabricate an extra line on their résumés, Isaacs said.
"People see others getting ahead and think, 'maybe it's my résumé.'
It's easy to disparage Thompson, she said, but given the high incidence of résumé padding in general, people should use this opportunity to take a second look at their own résumés.
"Armed with an excellent résumé, you'll get your foot in the door, and there'll be something that comes along that's perfect for you, and you can start a job on honest footing, and it's just better for everybody."