Many Obama administration officials, lawmakers and observers from across the political spectrum want to know how bin Laden -- based at a compound in the military garrison city of Abbottabad -- could have eluded Pakistani capture, or whether the government or elements of it harbored bin Laden.
Carney told reporters that U.S. officials need to learn more about the "support network" that sustained bin Laden in Pakistan.
In comments Tuesday at a House subcommittee hearing on Pakistan, King noted that bin Laden's compound was near a headquarters for the Pakistani intelligence services.
The United States has regarded Pakistan as a top ally in the fight against the Taliban, al Qaeda, the Haqqani Network and other Pakistan-based militants who have launched attacks against internationaland Afghan troops in Afghanistan.
According to the U.S. Government Accountability Office, the United States has provided $18 billion in foreign assistance and reimbursements to Pakistan, two-thirds of which are security-related.
...
Asked if the U.S. funding to Pakistan should continue, McDonough said such investments bolster U.S. security.
McDonough also said he agreed with a reported quote by Central Intelligence Agency Director Leon Panetta that the United States decided not to share intelligence with Pakistan in the run-up to the Monday raid that led to bin Laden's death because of fears of a leak.
One ISI official denied any complicity in hiding bin Laden, saying one failure and embarrassment doesn't negate its "track record" of capturing more al Qaeda members than anyone else.
The United States is reviewing intelligence seized in the compound to determine whether bin Laden received support inside Pakistan, a senior U.S. official told CNN.
A very complex set of officials," the Indiana senator said.
Mark Quarterman, director of the Program on Crisis, Conflict, and Cooperation at the Center for Strategic and International Studies and an expert on Pakistan, said there have been strong differences between Washington and Islamabad over U.S. drone strikes in the tribal region and calls to remove CIA operatives in the country.
"I would not be surprised if there are questions on Capitol Hill about continued level of support to Pakistan, about the U.S. relationship with Pakistan and the consideration of the nature of that relationship and how we handle it going forward," he said.
Jamie Metzl, executive vice president of the Asia Society, said the onus will be on Pakistan to do a thorough investigation to assess what happened with bin Laden.
"If Pakistan denies any official involvement with bin Laden, it will be difficult to prevent a backlash among members of the U.S. Congress who will believe that Pakistan is playing a double game," Metzl said.