The Vermont Yankee nuclear power plant -- the subject of a battle between state authorities and the Nuclear Regulatory Commission over its continued operation -- uses one of 23 U.S. reactors built with a General Electric-designed containment housing known as the Mark I.
No nuclear plant could have avoided a meltdown after being swamped by a tsunami and losing power to cooling systems for an extended period of time, the company says -- and at least one expert CNN spoke to agrees.
Stephen Hanauer, a former top safety official at what was then the Atomic Energy Commission, warned in 1971 that in an accident in which the core slowly loses coolant and overheats, the Mark I containment "would overpressurize.
Three Mile Island used an entirely different design, but the NRC began an extensive safety review after the accident that resulted in several changes to the Mark I.
Arnie Gundersen, a former nuclear engineer and a leading critic of the Vermont Yankee plant, says the Japanese accident shows the Mark I containment system can't prevent a release of radioactivity in a meltdown.
But it said it would examine several of the issues the petitioners raised as part of its review of the Japanese disaster.
As for GE, he said, "They got the rule book from the federal government, and they said 'This is all you have to design it for.'
GE says it has made several changes to the Mark I design since 1980 aimed at improving safety in the event of an accident.
Tetuan said the nuclear industry is still studying what happened in Japan, "and there will undoubtedly be lessons learned that will need to be implemented across the industry and across all types of nuclear plants, including the Mark I."
Japan will need decades to clean up after Fukushima Daiichi, the world's worst nuclear accident since Chernobyl in 1986.
"It took three years at Three Mile Island to be able to open up the pressure vessel," Lee said.
The U.S. nuclear industry hasn't built a new reactor since Three Mile Island.
CNN's Todd Schwarzschild and Curt Merrill contributed to this report.