But with one phone call and a glimpse at a man who made him think twice, the opportunity to work with Novak Djokovic was a challenge he could not resist.
"I see him against Rafael Nadal and Roger Federer, probably the two most popular players in the world, and he doesn't always get a fair deal from the crowd.
Becker, whose first of three triumphs at the All England club came as a raw teenager, was heavily criticized when he moved away from the microphone to become an integral part of Djokovic's coaching set up.
Whenever he makes a mistake I feel that I make it too," Becker says.
"Inside it's a volcano, I'm burning.
While Becker received a couple of phone calls from players curious as to whether he would be willing to take up a coaching role, it was only once Djokovic got in touch that he began to consider moving back onto the circuit.
"But Novak called me and I told him I felt honored.
"I considered going back on the road but I wanted to talk to him first to see how driven he was.
Instead, Becker believes the defeat to Wawrinka allowed them time to assess which way they needed to go, and allowed him to begin to influence the Serbian's game -- especially the mental side.
Defeats in the finals at Wimbledon and the U.S Open in 2013 and the 2014 French Open had left question marks over Djokovic's morale, but Becker believes any doubts have since been erased.
"Maybe that was something he was looking for.
Djokovic will start his 2014 U.S. Open campaign next week hoping to secure a second victory at Flushing Meadows to his growing list of triumphs, having lost in the last two finals there.
"Novak is a great student given he's someone who has won so much already," says Becker.
"He had a dream, coming from very humble beginnings.
"It changed me for the better," says Becker, who has children by both his first and second wives.
It gave me another three or four years on my career and I think it will do the same for Novak.
He loves his wife and family more than anything in the world, and having that addition to his family will make him a better man."