Washington (CNN) -- Speaker John Boehner, R-Ohio, indicated Wednesday that the GOP-controlled House of Representatives will not back a resolution sponsored by Sen. John McCain, R-Arizona, expressing congressional support for limited American involvement in the NATO-led military campaign in Libya.
House leaders are preparing to hold a vote on the McCain-Kerry measure, but are also considering another resolution that would strictly limit U.S. involvement in Libya to a noncombat role.
The Obama administration has already promised not to use U.S. ground troops, but bipartisan congressional opposition to the military campaign has been mounting.
The White House argues the president didn't need congressional authorization because U.S. forces are playing only a supporting role in Libya and haven't engaged in what the law defines as hostilities.
Boehner indicated Tuesday the House proposal seeking to limit U.S. forces to a noncombat role reflects growing frustration over Obama's alleged failure to inadequately consult Congress.
Reid said Tuesday that there is bipartisan support for the McCain-Kerry resolution in the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, but that he was still in discussion with the two sponsors on when to bring the measure from the panel to the Senate floor.
McCain has expressed anger that the White House didn't push for an earlier congressional vote on the war.
Obama responded with a 32-page report arguing in part that he has not violated the War Powers Resolution.
"The president's done a lousy job of communicating and managing our involvement in Libya, but I will be no part of an effort to defund Libya or to try to cut off our efforts to bring Gadhafi down," conservative Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-South Carolina, told NBC's "Meet the Press" on Sunday.
Some Republicans, however, have now expressed opposition to that effort, citing growing concerns about its cost.
CNN's Dana Bash, Deirdre Walsh, Dan Lothian, Alan Silverleib and Tom Cohen contributed to this report.