"I wanted to say I am sorry for the loss of your son," Zimmerman said in an unusual appeal directly to Martin's family before he testified in the Seminole County Courthouse in Sanford.
Zimmerman's attorney, Mark O'Mara, said after the hearing that his client was responding to an interview in which Martin's mother, Sybrina Fulton, said she wanted to hear from the man who shot her son.
Martin's parents were "completely devastated" over the decision to allow Zimmerman to post bond and eventually go free, attorney Benjamin Crump said.
The judge told O'Mara to talk to authorities about his request to allow Zimmerman to leave Florida while awaiting trial.
De la Rionda said no decision has been made on whether to allow Zimmerman to leave the state.
"He said, 'Mom, if I don't go, they don't have nobody,' " she said.
Zimmerman's father, Robert Zimmerman Sr., testified that his son is not a violent man despite previous incidents discussed by de la Rionda during the hearing, including a scuffle with a police officer and a dispute with a woman.
Martin's family and the special prosecutor appointed to investigate the case have rejected that argument, saying they believe Zimmerman disobeyed the instructions of a police dispatcher to stop following Martin, racially profiled him and unjustly killed him.
In the call, Zimmerman said he was following Martin after the teen started to run, prompting the dispatcher to tell him, "We don't need you to do that."
A police report indicated he was bleeding from the nose and the back of his head.
In Friday's hearing, an investigator for special prosecutor Angela Corey's office said authorities have no evidence showing who started the altercation that led to Martin's death.
But he said evidence in the case is not consistent with Zimmerman's account that he was able to move away from the sidewalk just before being shot.
Crump said Martin's father, Tracy Martin, wept through much of Friday hearing, and the family was distraught at the prospect of Zimmerman being able to reunite with his family.
CNN's John Couwels contributed to this report.