(CNN) -- Brazil might be the biggest country most of the world doesn't know a whole heckuva a lot about.
Now that Brazil will be hosting the World Cup next year and the Olympics in 2016 (massive public expenditures that many here deeply oppose), it's time for a crash course in all things Brazilian.
Brazilians like to express themselves and don't have many restraints on the volume with which they do it.
Not many Brazilians speak English, particularly outside Rio de Janeiro or Sao Paulo.
(How are you?
Just about every other street in Rio has a juice bar.
The Brazilian banana is the tastiest in the world, far superior to the bland Central American version (say Brazilians), and it makes for super savory drinks.
One of the largest wetlands in the world, the Pantanal, spans 70,000 square miles in southwestern Brazil.
Even though living standards have risen over the last decade and a number of Brazilians have entered the middle class, there's still a huge chunk of the population living day to day.
These mountains of bricks, rising in intricate forms, border the country's largest cities like Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro.
Why make products as far away from the point of sale as you can get in Brazil?
It's cheaper to make some products in the Amazon than other parts of the country, where taxes are legendary.
The docks of the Rio Negro still show vestiges of an older way of life -- double-decker ferryboats that carry people and products up and down the two behemoth rivers.
The Northeast of Brazil has a lot of festivals.
The Northeast of Brazil has its own country-style beats -- embolada, baio, xote and forro, which is also a hugely popular dance in Brazil.
Getting to know people in Brazil is a fast-track process.
A day heavy in meet-and-greets can lead to a lot of cheek nuzzling, which for some makes Brazil a wonderful thing and for others a place of more colds and flus.
Piranha live in the major river basins of South America, and the Amazon tributaries of Brazil are well-stocked with them.
Locals blocked off a river and filled it with starving piranha, and then tossed in a cow to guarantee a good show for the President.