While aides in both parties say it's likely Congress will resolve that dispute, Republicans are still licking their wounds after a public backlash over how they handled those issues and fear that Senate Democrats will drag out the fight to score more political points in an election year.
Democrats, who run the Senate, and Republicans, who control the House, acknowledge that outside of the payroll tax cut bill no major legislation is expected to make it through Congress this year.
But high on the agenda at that meeting for House Speaker John Boehner is likely to be an effort to bridge severe divisions with his own rank-and- file, many of whom questioned his leadership over the course of several showdowns with the White House and Democrats last year.
Tensions between Senate Democrats and Republicans are also high.
A top Senate Democratic leadership aide said the party isn't overly concerned.
When Congress limped out of town before Christmas, it agreed to a two-month extension of a bill that cuts payroll taxes, extends unemployment benefits and prevents a cut in the rate paid to doctors who care for Medicare patients.
Some in the GOP are wary the White House and Senate Democrats will try again to pass a surtax on millionaires -- something even some Democrats don't support -- as a way of painting the GOP as protectors of the rich.
"I would hope the two Republican leaders would have learned from what took place in the previous year," Reid said.
Senators also want to pass a highway bill that would fund road and bridge construction for the next two years.
Democrats say they expect the White House to reject the plan -- because the administration has said it can't finish its environmental review by then -- but Republicans are promising to continue to hammer the administration on the issue.
But the White House is unlikely to support the GOP proposals and they are unlikely to go anywhere in the Democratic-led Senate.
In addition to the bills on jobs, the House also is expected to take up legislation to make more transparent members of Congress' stock trades and other financial transactions.
It will then continue all year with a myriad of bills Democrats think will prove to a wary public they are putting jobs first.
A measure to fund school construction is another example of a bill Democrats hope to highlight.
Democrats need to pick up 25 seats to regain control of the House -- a high hurdle, but one many Democrats feel is within reach because they think voters will blame Republicans for the gridlock in Washington.
The recent announcement by Sen. Ben Nelson, a conservative Democrat from Nebraska, that he would not seek re-election is seen by Republicans as another sign Democrats will lose majority control.