(CNN) -- President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi of Egypt is on a mission -- to return his country to its rightful place as the "indispensable" Arab state after what he saw as the dangerous chaos of Muslim Brotherhood rule under his predecessor, Mohamed Morsy.
El-Sisi is not the first Egyptian leader to fear Islamist militancy.
If that border is to be reopened, Egypt will have to agree to any international monitoring mission to prevent banned goods -- the sort that would allow Hamas to re-arm -- from entering Gaza.
The Egyptian government is not directly negotiating with Hamas, but with a Palestinian delegation of which Hamas and Islamic Jihad are a small part.
While Morsy embraced Hamas and warned Israel that it would "pay a heavy price if it continues its aggression," Egypt and Israel are now in lockstep against a shared adversary.
El-Sisi wants to see Gaza demilitarized as much as Israel does, not just because of Hamas but because of other actors there such as Islamic Jihad.
But the attacks have continued.
One talk-show host, Mazhar Shahin, declared the Egyptian people were "not ready to sacrifice even a single hair from the eyebrow" in defense of Hamas.
He said last Saturday: "We have a real opportunity to end this conflict for once and for all but we must give the Palestinian people real hope in a Palestinian state and its capital Eastern Jerusalem."
PA President Mahmoud Abbas is all too aware of the support in the West Bank for Hamas, whose flags have been hoisted by the hundreds at recent protests.
But ultimately Hamas knows -- as do the other Palestinian factions -- that Egypt's is the only game in town.
El-Sisi inherited a mess, with fuel subsidies alone costing the state nearly $20 billion a year, tourism collapsing and foreign exchange reserves dwindling.
If the el-Sisi government can introduce much-needed reforms to cut bureaucracy and begin to reduce subsidies, it may be able to negotiate the $4.8 billion loan from the International Monetary Fund that the Morsy government failed to secure.
"The pains and suffering of the people are too many.
"That is why I am asking: where is your support?