Situated in the Outback, it is close to nothing: The cities of Adelaide and Alice Springs are respectively nine hours south and eight hours north, and the nearest town -- William Creek, official population three -- takes 3½ hours to reach, provided the dirt roads aren't closed due to rain.
As they mined the earth to discover one of the world's richest gem deposits, they also discovered why Westerners didn't settle in this barren, desolate region of Australia before: The heat.
There's a reconstructed "Star Wars" spaceship, underground hotels, a Volkswagon beetle painted like an opal dangling from a store, signs for underground churches, a kangaroo orphanage, a couple of mining museums, underground home tours, and a pizza place that sells pies with toppings like kangaroo, emu sausage, sweet cranberry, asparagus, onions and Camembert.
Coober Pedy remains a popular tourist destination for those seeking an authentic Outback experience (or who want to see where films like "Red Planet," "Mad Max" and "Priscilla, Queen of the Desert" were filmed).
Outlaws came to Coober Pedy a century ago to find their fortune.
Outback Mail Run Tour: Guests travel 13 hours with an Australian mail carrier to deliver mail and supplies to five cattle stations (including the largest in Australia) and two towns (including one of the smallest in Australia).
The tour provides a unique opportunity for visitors to experience the vastness of the Australian Outback and to learn about what it's really like to live there.
Fossicking: Tourists in Coober Pedy are welcome to dig for their own opal fortune at public fossicking sites in town.
Ask any resident for directions to the nearest public fossicking site.
By bus: Greyhound offers daily service to Coober Pedy from both Adelaide and Alice Springs.
Desert Cave Hotel: Located in the middle of Coober Pedy's main street, this is the town's only four-star hotel.
Underground Bed and Breakfast: Owners Ana and Ken Male treat their guests to truly authentic Coober Pedy accommodation.
Tom and Mary's Greek Taverna: The place to go for Mediterranean food in the Outback.
Hutchinson Street, Coober Pedy
Umberto's: Located in the Desert Cave Hotel, Umberto's is Coober Pedy's finest dining establishment, and is known for its Mod-Oz cuisine, including regional specialties like kangaroo, camel, emu and Australian beef.
If visitors are too tired to move after eating, they can stay in one of the pub's hotel rooms.
The Outback Mail Run Tour stops here for dinner.