From the androgynous swagger of David Bowie (his hit "Heroes" introduced Team GB to the stadium), to the drugged-out funk of the Happy Mondays; the rolling grooves of Soul II Soul's "Back to Life" to the punky-punch of The Prodigy's "Firestarter"; the petulance of the Stones' "Satisfaction" to the raw, rebellious sound of the Sex Pistols; and form the staccato rap of Dizzee Rascal (born a stone's-throw from the Olympic Park) to euphoria of Underworld's bespoke-written tracks a montage of era-defining tunes were melded together to provide a snapshot of distinctly British sounds.
The Beatles may well be a band form another century but the 28 million people who follow the now defunct band's official Facebook page suggests they are loved the world over as much as ever.
The vision had always been clear even back in the Bird's Nest Stadium -- when Led Zeppelin's legendary axeman Jimmy Page and stunning soul singer Leona Lewis belted out "Whole Lotta Love" from the top of a double-decker bus to provide soundtrack to the handing over of hosting duties from China.
Jamie Fullerton - features editor for the NME (New Musical Express), Britain's pre-eminent weekly music magazine, told CNN: "What's really interesting is the set included bands like New Order and Happy Mondays, organizers tipping their hat towards the cult element of British rock 'n' roll music, which is very different to what you see at an event like the Superbowl.
"The Olympics is a cultural event and the Games is about hammering home the sense of location as much as anything, it's natural for music to be a big part of that especially because it's so integral to our identity in Britain.
Sales of British music abroad reached $2.9 billion in retail value in 2011 with British artists accounting for almost 13% of global sales of recorded music, according to BPI (the representative body of the British Music Industry) figures.
The Londoner's second album, 21, sold 18 million copies, accounting for 1.6% of all albums sold in the global music market that year.
We ran a survey last year to ask whether the UK population thought that we'd made an important contribution to world music.
"The Beatles were particularly important in paving the way internationally.
Ultimately, the success of the opening ceremony to the London 2012 Olympics can probably only be judged properly with the perspective of hindsight and when measured against the others that have gone before it.
Now, back to the "Nanana nahs."