Washington (CNN) -- Top White House and congressional negotiators failed to reach agreement Tuesday on a spending plan for the rest of the current fiscal year, bringing the federal government closer to a shutdown at the end of the week.
Republicans, under pressure from the conservative Tea Party movement for deep cuts that will reduce the size of government, blame Democrats for failing to pass a fiscal year 2011 budget last year when they controlled both congressional chambers and say that President Barack Obama and his party are ignoring the peril of the rising federal deficits and national debt.
Obama and Reid, D-Nevada, both insisted Tuesday that Democrats are agreeing to more than 50% of the spending cuts sought by Republicans, which they said should be sufficient for a compromise on an issue that has little overall effect on the deficit and debt issues.
The president then made an unannounced appearance in the White House briefing room to tell reporters that Boehner and Reid would meet on their own later in the day.
Obama also said he could support one more short-term funding extension to avert a partial shutdown, but only if a deal is reached on spending for the rest of the current fiscal year, which ends September 30.
Boehner, meanwhile, insisted House Republicans wouldn't let Senate Democrats and the White House put them "in a box" by forcing them to choose between a government shutdown or continued government funding with insufficient spending cuts.
"We want the largest spending cuts that are possible," said Boehner, R-Ohio.
As the potential for a shutdown grew, an aide to Boehner said the lawmaker also told House Administration Committee Chairman Dan Lungren, R-California, to issue guidance to all members on how the House would operate in the event of a government shutdown.
It would be up to Congress to decide if furloughed workers get paid for the work time missed when the shutdown ends, the posting said.
Democratic sources said they want about half the overall cuts in this spending bill to come from mandatory spending programs, and that they have proposed the necessary reductions in programs at the U.S. Department of Agriculture, the Justice Department, the Treasury Department and Pell Grants.
Republicans, who want any spending cuts to reflect a reduction in the size of government, note that reducing the spending in a mandatory program for one year doesn't prevent the amount from returning to its original level the following year.