Rep. Carolyn McCarthy, D-New York, a longtime gun control advocate, led the fight on the Democratic side of the aisle.
"These assault magazines help put the 'mass' in 'mass shooting' and anything we can do to stop their proliferation will save lives in America," said McCarthy, whose husband was killed and her son critically wounded in a mass shooting on the Long Island Railroad in New York in 1993.
Meanwhile, two Republican freshmen, Rep. Steve Stockman of Texas and Rep. Thomas Massie of Kentucky, have introduced bills that would allow more guns around schools.
The NRA has long blocked efforts to introduce tougher gun laws, arguing Congress cannot infringe on the Second Amendment right to bear arms.
"Politicians pass laws for Gun-Free School Zones," LaPierre said during the December press conference.
They post signs advertising them.
"The NRA has said that the answer to Newtown is to put more guns, more police officers in schools, and so if you want anything to happen on gun control, you're going to have at least half of the Senate upsetting the NRA and that's a very difficult proposition."
Gramlich said some elements of gun control -- like banning high-capacity ammunition magazines -- could get passed, but more comprehensive legislation faces long odds.
Those recommendations are due this month, and the president has said he wants Congress to pass legislation this year.
"There is no more uphill fight than this, the question is do we fight or do we knuckle under and we're not knuckle-unders.
"There's definitely a question of timing and floor time for these kinds of debates, and then there's also the political question," said Gramlich.
"You just had a fiscal cliff deal where the House speaker really alienated a lot of the members of his own party, because he was seen as making too many concessions towards the Democrats, and if you're talking about an issue as powerful and emotional as gun control, is the speaker really going to meet Democrats halfway on something like that and risk offending his own party even more?