Cesar Chavez is something of a national icon.
"I was really surprised that there wasn't already a film out about Chavez's life, so that's why I spent the past four years making this and hope the country will join me in celebrating his life and work," Diego Luna said during Tuesday's screening of "Cesar Chavez: An American Hero" in New York.
He and Dolores Huerta co-founded what's now known as the United Farm Workers.
Not to mention public awareness about the dangers of pesticides to farm workers and helping outlaw the short-handled hoe.
States such as New York, where farm workers face long hours without any overtime pay or a day of rest, are of concern for human rights activist Kerry Kennedy, president of the Robert F. Kennedy Center for Justice and Human Rights.
California is still the only state where farm workers have the right to organize.
Kennedy is urging the passing of the Farmworkers Fair Labor Practices Act, which would give farm workers the right to one day of rest each week, time-and-a-half pay for work past an eight-hour day, as well as unemployment, workers' compensation and disability insurance.
"Farm workers shouldn't struggle so much to feed their own families, and we can be part of that change," Luna said.
"We aren't pushing Cesar Chavez Day just to give people a day off.
Right now, Cesar Chavez Day is recognized only in California, Texas and Colorado.
We even had people that were killed in the movement but we were still able to organize," Huerta said.
Plana, known for his role as the father on ABC's "Ugly Betty" TV series, said his first acting gig was in the UFW's theatrical troupe educating and helping raising farm workers' awareness about their work conditions.
"Well, first Cesar didn't want to spend the time making the film because there was so much work to do, and he was hesitant on being singled out because there were so many others that contributed to the UFW's success," said Rodriguez.
"I hope young people use the power of social media to help spread the word about social change," Dawson said.
"There is power in being a consumer and boycotting.