"I'd been trimming it down over the past year, but after that conversation on the Internet, it really struck me that I don't need all this stuff," he said.
He declared his intention in May to wear one outfit for one year in a blog post titled "minimalism."
It was also a way for him to start experimenting with how to live with less overall, he said.
When people recognize the benefits of fewer choices in their closets, they start thinking about how to apply the philosophy to other areas of their lives, said Courtney Carver, creator of Project 333.
"It's sort of the gateway drug for further simplicity, because that's where we start each day," Carver said.
I have two little kids -- ages 2.5 and 9 months -- so I don't really have time in the morning for trying on outfits and staring into my closet," Sherwood said.
"I tend to have a hard time getting rid of clothes even if I never wear them, because of guilt that I spent money on them or because I'm afraid I might want or need them at some point.
"It's nice only wearing my favorite clothes and jewelry, and not feeling guilty for neglecting other clothes I may not like as much," she said.
Today, she continues to use only 33 clothing items (not including underwear, sleepwear or workout clothing) at a time, reassessing her wardrobe every three months to cycle in seasonal necessities from a single container into her closet.
She still makes purchases to replace items in her closet, but she's more thoughtful about them, she said.
Parting with clothing, even clothing you hate, is hard, said Jillian Quint, managing editor of PureWow.com, an online publication geared toward women's interests.
If you really want to rock a minimalist closet, it helps to invest in quality pieces that do double, triple or quadruple duty, Quint said.
Don't get rid of anything at first, Project 333's Carver recommends.
Consumers are demanding a return to high-quality items that can stand the test of time, Quint said
Each piece of clothing was selected for its versatility and durability in different weather conditions and social environments, Souveny said.
It helps that some clothing brands heard about his plans and donated clothing to his experiment.
"My closet is full of cheap clothes that will never wear out because I never wear them.
"Who knows, maybe it'll inspire others to think about how minimalism could work in their closet."