Prosecutor Gerrie Nel has accused the athlete of hiding the truth about the death of Steenkamp, whom he shot last year through a closed toilet door in his home in Pretoria, South Africa.
Pistorius said he thought he heard the toilet door opening before he fired.
"When I heard a noise, I didn't have to think, and I fired -- I fired my weapon.
Nel then hammered Pistorius on whether he had known Steenkamp was in the toilet when he fired.
Pistorius earlier denied being "ready to shoot" as he made his way to the bathroom where he says he heard what he thought was an intruder.
Asked by the prosecutor why he approached the apparent threat rather than seeking to move out of harm's way, the athlete said it was his in his nature to respond that way.
Nel also argued that it was "not possible" that Steenkamp would not have responded when Pistorius screamed to her about what he thought was an intruder in the house, as he has said happened.
She was scared of you," replied Nel.
Pistorius said he did not.
Nel asked whether he had waited for a response, as he said would have been reasonable, pointing out that his ex-girlfriend Samantha Taylor had testified he had done that on a previous occasion when he'd heard a noise.
Nel sought to argue that they do not support Pistorius' version of events.
Pistorius became emotional as the cross-examination continued, prompting Nel to ask him why.
Nel has previously accused Pistorius of becoming emotional when the questions get difficult.
...
After Judge Thokozile Masipa pressed Pistorius on the question, the athlete said he wasn't making mistakes because he was tired -- prompting Nel to ask why, in that case, he was making mistakes.
Nel also sought to paint him as selfish and demanded to know why the athlete did not respond to his girlfriend's declaration of love.
"Because it was all about Mr. Pistorius," Nel said.
The trial has gripped South Africa, where Pistorius is considered a symbol of triumph over physical adversity.
His testimony can be heard on an audio feed.
South Africa does not have jury trials.