(CNN)Noelle Velentzas, 28, couldn't understand why U.S. citizens like herself were traveling overseas to wage jihad when they could simply "make history" at home by unleashing terrorist attacks, according to a federal criminal complaint unsealed Thursday.
Siddiqui had repeated contact with members of al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, published jihad-themed poems in magazines affiliated with the terror group and possessed propane gas tanks along with instructions on turning them into explosive devices, the complaint said.
Velentzas and Siddiqui did not enter pleas when they appeared in federal court in Brooklyn on Thursday.
In the past 18 months, the Justice Department's National Security Division has prosecuted or is prosecuting more than 30 cases of people attempting to travel abroad to join or provide support to terrorist groups.
"Given how the terrorist threat to the world is evolving, how the potential terrorist threat to our nation is evolving, homeland security is becoming a matter of 'hometown security,'" Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson told reporters Thursday.
Velentzas and Siddiqui repeatedly expressed support for violent jihad, the complaint said.
"As alleged, the defendants in this case carefully studied how to construct an explosive device to launch an attack on the homeland," Loretta Lynch, U.S. attorney for the Eastern District of New York, said in a statement.
In February, Velentzas and the undercover agent drove past a Home Depot in Queens.
In a statement, Islamic Circle of North America said Velentzas was formerly homeless and provided shelter by the relief organization.
"She stayed for a short period of time between 2008 and 2009," the statement said.
Velentzas appeared to have experienced hardship in her life but was "working towards self-development and long-term stability," the statement said.
...
Last month, an Army National Guard member and his cousin were arrested in Illinois and accused of conspiring to provide material support to ISIS, federal prosecutors said.
In February, three New York men were arrested and accused of a failed attempt to join ISIS in Syria, prosecutors said.
Abror Habibov, 30, who operated kiosks at malls along the East Coast, was arrested along with Akhror Saidakhmetov, 19, and Abdurasul Juraboev, 24, in connection with an alleged failed attempt by the two younger men to join ISIS in Syria.