But if the future of the domestic sport lies at the feet of new talent, youngsters are dreaming of playing in stadiums abroad, not at home.
It is still early days, but Baan believes with continued development of India's grassroots, the country might be ready to participate in the 2022 World Cup.
This grassroots project involves the All India Football Federation (AIFF) opening residential academies all over the country, free to athletes and providing education alongside football training.
Up until the 1970s, India, which has long been one of the world's top sides at cricket, was among the best sides in Asian football and the national team was even invited by FIFA to play in the 1950 World Cup in Brazil.
The AIFF has governed football in India for 75 years and was responsible for appointing Baan.
If India is not a sporting nation, then why are there so many people playing sport on the ground?"
Former Indian soccer star Baichung Bhutia, who briefly played for English lower division team Bury FC in 1999, added: "If the AIFF says India's not a sporting nation, then what are they doing there?
However the influence of England -- or rather the English Premier League -- still hangs heavy over Indian football.
At Bhutia's academy in Delhi, 14-year-old Somil, Vansh and Tannay say they stay awake until the early hours to keep up with the European Championships and the World Cup.
"But I don't really know much about Indian football."
The Indian Football Association (IFA), which manages football in West Bengal, organized the country's first international friendly between the hugely popular Venezuela and Argentina in 2011.
Again, these efforts, independent of the AIFF, did not make noticeable improvements to the home game.
"These clubs don't know how lucky they are because they did absolutely nothing to get this kind of commitment from fans," says Hindustan Times sports journalist Dhiman Sarkar.
"Football hasn't changed; it's still the same from the '60s and '70s.
"Here you have over one billion people; if you can make football popular, it will be one of the most popular things."
Along with Manchester United, Liverpool and Barcelona have also opened football academies in the country.
Baan says children aged between six and 12 years old need to be offered a weekly program of fitness and sports run by quality coaches at all schools.
Das points out that this would be the first time that India would play in a World Cup.
.