The Olympic and Paralympic sprinter is facing a maximum five-year prison sentence after he was found guilty of the negligent killing of his girlfriend Reeva Steenkamp on February 14, 2013.
Despite a seven-month trial, much remains in question about what happened at his upmarket home in Pretoria, South Africa around 4 a.m. that Thursday morning, leaving stunned fans at a loss to explain how their hero could have fallen so far and so fast.
Born with a congenital abnormality, Pistorius, 27, had both his legs amputated below the knee before his first birthday, but through sheer determination carved out a career in world-class athletics.
For many, he was an example of what could be achieved through a potent mix of determination, positivity and skill.
In a story titled "The Fast Life of Oscar Pistorius" published in the New York Times, writer Michael Sokolove wrote: "Pistorius is, as well, blessed with an uncommon temperament -- a fierce, even frenzied need to take on the world at maximum speed and with minimum caution."
In an exclusive interview last summer, Arnold Pistorius said his nephew was heartbroken.
he told CNN.
"I grew up in a family where disability was never an issue.
And that's the mentality that I've had," Pistorius told CNN in late 2012.
Support from Pistorius' family has been firm and unwavering since Steenkamp's death.
He said thousands of people had sent messages of support from all over the world in the wake of the shooting.
"But if he's telling the truth, I may forgive him one day," he said.
Another, Samuel Motau, described Pistorius as "a very generous man."
In 2004, Pistorius took his first gold at the Athens Paralympics and one year later competed against able-bodied Olympics for the first time, at the South African Championships.
During the very last track event of the Paralympics, Pistorius again picked himself up and smashed the 400-meter T44 Paralympic record in a time of 46.68 to take gold.
When asked about his thoughts on being a role model, Pistorius told CNN before the shooting: "I think it's a massive blessing.
Pistorius has more than 300,000 followers on Twitter, tens of thousands of whom added in the days since his arrest last year.
The loss of Reeva and the complete trauma of that day, I will carry with me for the rest of my life."