A law then went on the books.
Americans have discovered that a tiny, radical minority can immobilize their entire country and hold it as still as a robbery victim staring at the barrel of a pointed gun.
And regardless of how this might anger the majority, they must live with the fact that it can happen again.
Any argument that the temporary closing of the U.S. federal government did not accomplish anything, in this scheme, therefore, is wrong.
Political recalcitrance over the American debt ceiling threatened to toss international markets into chaos simply because a small cabal of conservatives did not like a new law to provide health care to millions of people who cannot otherwise afford premiums.
The anger of the few in the minority was never supposed to be able to stop the will of the majority.
The Texas tea party is made joyful by Cruz's exhortations, and in the obscure runoff 15 months ago, during the 100-plus-degree-burn of summer, they voted for him in big numbers, while moderates were hesitant to venture outdoors to even buy cold beer--or vote.
The streak of anarchy that runs through the politics of Cruz and the tea party ought to frighten sober Americans.
We might die to preserve our nation's principles but most of us won't kill our country to win an argument.
They voted in disproportionate numbers to get him into the U.S. Senate and he hopes to animate that political base across the country and ride their cheers to the GOP nomination.
Such an unconventional strategy may be his only hope, because there are few left in the GOP who will offer him any respect.
Cruz has at least done us the benefit of showing us that our system functions best as a platform for campaigning and getting re-elected and not for conducting the people's business; not even the disgraced Richard Nixon created such jeopardy with his betrayal.
They like this game because now it only takes one person to storm the battlements that protect American democracy.
The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of James Moore.