1.
In a major development, Syria has reportedly accepted a Russian proposal to hand over its chemical weapons stockpile to international control, but the details of what was actually agreed to are still murky.
Obama spent most of the speech laying out a chronology of events and pushing for military action on moral, political and strategic grounds, saying that previous efforts to resolve the Syrian conflict diplomatically had failed.
But he warned that "it's too early to tell whether this offer will succeed, and any agreement must verify that the Assad regime keeps its commitments."
And he wrapped up by arguing that America must lead and that force was just in this case.
That's what makes us exceptional," he said.
Commentators said after the speech that most Americans probably understand the moral case, but they questioned whether Obama could ultimately sway public opinion to see things his way.
2.
Additionally, nearly seven in 10 say that it's not in the U.S. national interest to get involved in Syria's civil war.
Still, Obama laid out a strategic rationale for military force, saying that what happens in Syria could affect allies in the region, including Israel -- all in the U.S. interest, he said.
3.
"The purpose of this strike would be to deter Assad from using chemical weapons, to degrade his regime's ability to use them and to make clear to the world that we will not tolerate their use," Obama said.
"Even a limited strike will send a message to Assad that no other nation can deliver," he said.
U.S. Rep. David Valadao, R-California, agreed with Paul.
4.
Do we strike again?"
"If we fail to act, the Assad regime will see no reason to stop using chemical weapons," he said, adding that continued use could make it easier for terrorists to get their hands on them.
5.
The administration distrusts Syria and its ally Russia, and it worries that the proposal to hand over its chemical weapons stockpile is simply a tactic to buy time and derail a potential U.S. strike.
Riedel said the speech put the president in a difficult situation.
Rep. Valadao said the president's speech did nothing to convince him to support a possible military strike.