(CNN) -- Zabiullah Mujahid, one of two spokesmen for Afghan Taliban leader Mullah Mohammed Omar, spoke recently with CNN's Nic Robertson about the war in Afghanistan and the Taliban's relationship with al Qaeda.
Mujahid: I want to tell you clearly when we rose up in Afghanistan in 1994 we did not rise up to be the government ... you know the mujahadeen government ... and when the Russians flee Afghanistan.
And No.
2 I want to tell you clearly our Afghan nation is held hostage by foreign troops.
This is just a joke and we ask from our Muslim brothers and our population not to take part in this election because this is people selected from the White House before the election.
I told you clearly it is what the U.S. wants in Afghanistan, and yesterday as announced by our leader Mullah brother we will target the Afghan parliamentary members and government officials so if there are elections yes it is clear we will target them.
We will not target everyone with a suicide attack.
Yes the suicide attack is part of our war with the crusader so when we need a suicide attack we will do the suicide attack.
Mujahid: First we give the proof from the beginning of our jihad against crusader we do not want to kill civilians.
We will fight them and we will target them.
We are Afghan Taliban and our policy is clear against the foreign troops.
Mujahid: I will clearly tell you.
If they want to send 20,000 to start a new campaign, this is a war and we will see the war and make our policy.
CNN: Some people say President Obama has made Afghanistan a very big part of his foreign policy.
I want to tell you clearly we will win, and they will die.
We ask them to leave the country; we are ready to talk.
Third, leave the Afghan people to do what they want to do, like the Islamic government they want to establish.
I want to tell you two things clearly.
[When] one wants to talk with us and we want to talk, it will be clear.
Mujahid: I want to tell you clearly it is war.
We will win.
I will tell you we will win; we have the support of Muslim nations and this is what we believe.
Mujahid: The people who work with [Afghan President Hamid]Karzai they help us.
Mujahid: Taliban is one thing and al Qaeda is another.
Mujahid: We are not under the command of al Qaeda.
?
If mujahadeen freely want to do jihad they can come.