His new book, "Skinny Meals: Everything You Need to Lose Weight -- Fast!"
is chock full of 100 new recipes, all under 350 calories.
We asked Bob to share some of his favorites.
Will you take a look at that photo?
Doesn't it look like something you could serve for a brunch with pride and confidence?
Well, go ahead!
But don't forget to make this just for yourself sometimes, too.
Mix the sauce ingredients together and set aside so that it has a chance to come to room temperature while you are preparing the spinach and eggs.
In a steamer, steam the spinach for 30 seconds to 1 minute, or until just wilted.
Drain any excess water.
Set aside.
Top the toasted English muffin with the spinach and eggs; delicately spoon the sauce on top.
"Instead of making a traditional Hollandaise sauce (a sinfully rich combination of egg yolks and melted butter that hurts my heart just thinking about it), I've lightened things up using Greek yogurt.
I don't think you're going to miss 'real' Hollandaise.
This is going to become your go-to sauce for life."
Replace the fatty butter and sugary jam you used to pile on your toast with this abundance of natural flavors, good fats and protein, and you will have a well-balanced meal to kick-start your day!
It's low-calorie, high-protein and oh, so good.
In a small bowl, mash and mix the avocado, paprika and lemon juice.
Spread on the toast.
In the same small bowl, mix together the egg whites, shallots, mustard, capers and pepper.
"Like most busy people, I tend to automate my weekday breakfasts.
I have one or two recipes that I repeat, saving the slightly more complicated preparations for weekends, when I have more time to cook.
Avocado toast is one I just have to have several times a week!
To save even more time in the morning, double the chopped egg white, caper, shallot and Dijon mixture the first day of the week you make this breakfast; it'll keep in your refrigerator, and then all you have to do is pile it on your toast with the mashed avocado."
Pairing the protein of tuna with the carbs of pasta and all these delicious briny add-ins makes a memorable and hearty lunchtime meal.
In a medium bowl, mix the tuna, capers, shallot and olives.
Toss the pasta, tomatoes, arugula and spinach with the tuna mixture.
"When shopping for canned ingredients, like tuna, be sure to purchase the low-sodium version.
There's no short supply of other salty flavors in this dish: Capers and olives both naturally add a little salty punch to every bite.
For a little extra crunch, you could also dice up a tart apple and mix it into this lunch."
Eating out?
Best, worst food choices
Carb-free noodles, hooray!
Thinly sliced zucchini will work in any recipe that calls for pasta.
It pairs beautifully with any "skinny" sauce.
Slice the zucchini very thinly lengthwise.
Then cut each piece into thirds lengthwise to resemble thick noodles.
Steam the "noodles" for 2 to 3 minutes, or until they are just cooked through.
Meanwhile, blend the avocado, arugula, basil, broth, lemon juice, garlic and Parmesan in a food processor or blender.
Toss the "noodles" with the sauce and the cubed chicken and serve.
"If you have a mandoline, use that to slice the zucchini thinly (but watch your fingertips!).
If not, use a sharp knife and cut precisely."
Got cravings?
Snack 'em down!
Chimichurri is an Argentinean sauce similar to pesto.
You will often see it with more olive oil than herbs, but to make it skinny, Harper swapped the base and created a more herbaceous condiment.
Heat a medium skillet over medium-high heat.
Coat the skillet with olive oil spray and add the bell peppers and red onion.
Cook for 5 minutes, then add the tomatoes and spinach.
Heat through, stirring, until the spinach wilts.
Remove the vegetables and set aside.
Place the steak in the hot skillet and cook for at least 3 minutes on each side.
Transfer to a cutting board and let rest for 5 minutes before slicing.
Meanwhile, combine the parsley, cilantro, mint, garlic, lemon juice and broth in a food processor or blender and process until coarsely blended.
Cut the steak into strips and serve on top of the vegetables.
Drizzle the chimichurri sauce over the steak.
"Chimichurri isn't only for Argentineans.
It's popular throughout South America.
And chimichurri isn't only for steak; you can use this as a marinade for any protein, as a sauce for lunch pasta, as a topping on eggs or as a dressing."