China's state-run People's Daily newspaper is known for political correctness rather than a sense of humor.
So when a report surfaced this week that North Korean leader Kim Jong-Un had been named the 2012 "Sexiest Man Alive", the self-described mouthpiece of the Chinese Communist Party cheered its Korean comrade on its website -- only this "news" came from satirical U.S. website, The Onion.
China is North Korea's major ally and aid provider.
Reporting something flattering on Kim must have been considered politically correct.
Its website editors even built a gallery of photos to accompany the report, with slides featuring Kim riding a horse, inspecting troops and being hugged by female soldiers.
While the item spiced up the usually staid pages of the website, it led to wave of sniggering as international media lampooned Chinese state media for being fooled by a bogus report from a well-known purveyor of offbeat humor and satire.
The woman, who declined to identify herself, said the story and pictures had been removed a day after being posted.
But the damage had been done and The Onion was relishing the publicity.
"Please visit our friends at the People's Daily in China, a proud Communist subsidiary of The Onion," read its statement.
"Exemplary reportage, comrades."
Chinese micro-bloggers couldn't resist getting in on the act too.
"The world was fooled by the People's Daily, because no Chinese believes this paper," wrote @Hai_Dao_Wu_Bian.
The statue was moved off the square just as abruptly a few weeks later, prompting some in political circles to joke that the venerated sage, who hailed from rural Shandong, had been busted for not having a Beijing residence permit.
For centuries political satire has been a staple for much of Chinese humor, and remains so during the Communist era.
Nowadays, Chinese writers, artists, cartoonists, comedians and netizens resort to humor and satire to mock, question, challenge and document social phenomena, events and incidents.
"A lot of Chinese humor is pun-based and probably always has been," said Jaivin, who speaks Chinese fluently.
"The Chinese language is exceptionally rich in homonyms and is ripe for punning."
Much of it can be lost in translation but some does overcome any linguistic limits.
When some Beijing residents nicknamed the new Koolhaus-designed office complex of CCTV, China's flagship television network, "da kucha" (the Big Underpants), for its resemblance to underwear, the government tried to give it a nicer sounding moniker.
"So they tried 'zhichuang' -- Window on Knowledge," recalled Jaivin.
"Catchy but worse, because as Beijing funsters worked out in about a microsecond, it's also a homonym for hemorrhoid."
The Chinese sense of humor has also become more global, Rea said, citing the "E'gao phenomenon" of spoofing and parody on the Internet that started in 2005 and is still popular, especially among tech-savvy youths.
"It draws strongly on international influences, down to the images, sounds, and texts used in video mash-ups," he said.
"Maybe because many Chinese editors and journalists lack good knowledge of journalism and English so they find it hard to spot satire," suggested a graduate student in journalism in Beijing.
"Maybe because there is so much fake news and they lack the ability to distinguish real news from the fake."
"The primary lesson that all journalists -- not just Chinese -- should draw from this is that all information needs to be verified before it is published," said Richard Hornik, a lecturer in journalism at Stony Brook University, who once covered China for Time Magazine.
"Extremely," quipped Jaivin.
"That said, I do hope no one gets sent to a labor camp over it."