(CNN) -- Whether he is predicting the demise of the U.S. "empire," questioning U.S. accounts of the 9/11 attacks or accusing Europe of using the Holocaust as an excuse for supporting Israel, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad knows how to push the West's buttons at the U.N. General Assembly.
For the third straight year, U.S. diplomats on Thursday joined envoys from several other nations in walking out during the Iranian president's address at the annual United Nations gathering in New York.
That doesn't even count instances before that, when American diplomats conspicuously skipped his speech altogether.
Susan Rice, U.S. ambassador to the United Nations, wasn't impressed.
"We find what Ahmadinejad does and says when he comes to the United Nations absolutely odious, hateful, anti-Semitic, unacceptable, which is why the United States for three consecutive years -- including today -- have led a walkout of his speech," Rice told CNN's Wolf Blitzer on Thursday.

"Inevitably he says something outrageous, dishonest and offensive, and that leads to a walkout."
Representatives from the United States, Britain, Spain and other nations walked out while Ahmadinejad asserted that the U.S. government either participated in the 9/11 attacks or let them happen as an excuse to wage war in Iraq and Afghanistan.
He ripped capitalism, saying it brought about the conditions leading to the world's economic crisis.
He also called for a "return to monotheism and justice," calling it "the greatest hope and opportunity in all ages and generations."
The next day, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu criticized the Iranian leader at the General Assembly.

The delegations that stayed for Ahmadinejad's address gave "legitimacy to a man who denies the murder of 6 million Jews," Netanyahu said, referring to the Holocaust.
He blamed a few world powers for the world's problems, and defended his country's nuclear activities as peaceful.
The U.S. and other Western nations had long suspected that Iran had been pursuing nuclear weapons, but Iran said it seeks only a civilian nuclear energy program.
The only person at the United States' table was a note-taker; no U.S. diplomat was present.
Ahmadinejad invited "all independent, justice-seeking and peace-loving nations" to join Iran in a "coalition for peace."

He also criticized unnamed "powers" that he said were responsible for insecurity, division and moral decline across the world.
"Is it not high time for these powers to return from the path of arrogance and obedience to Satan to the path of faith in God?"
he said.
He criticized the United States without naming it, offering blunt assessments of the Iraq war and Washington's war on terrorism.
The American delegation's chairs were unoccupied, except for one woman taking notes.

Earlier, he had asked to lay a wreath at the site of the destroyed World Trade Center towers, but New York City officials denied the request, citing safety concerns at what was then a construction site.
Ahmadinejad said in 2006 that the United States' permanent inclusion on the U.N. Security Council undermines its effectiveness and credibility.
He also criticized "unwarranted support" for Israel during conflicts in the Palestinian territories and Lebanon.
On Iraq, Ahmadinejad said the United States, whom he called "the occupiers," is "incapable of establishing security," and scores were dying daily as a result.
"Where can the people of Iraq seek refuge, and from whom can the people of Iraq seek justice?"

he asked.
How can the Security Council act "when the occupiers themselves are permanent members of the council?"
Ahmadinejad in 2005 told the General Assembly that Iran had a right to operate a nuclear energy program.
He said it was unfair that some nations were allowed to make nuclear fuel while others are condemned for it.