Disney's It's a Small World ride turned 50 in April.
By way of tribute, we asked top industry experts for their picks for the biggest game changers in the history of theme park attractions.
"The ride demonstrates the power of employing artists to create an experience rather than simply asking engineers to build a ride," says Robert Niles, editor of ThemeParkInsider.com.
"The combination of Mary Blair's iconic design work combined with the Sherman Brothers' enduring theme song made It's a Small World the first true theme park ride.
Outlaw Run, the first wooden roller coaster with multiple inversions, opened in 2013.

"A few years ago, Idaho-based company Rocky Mountain Construction developed a system where they could replace part of a wooden track with a steel plate," says Justin Garvanovic of the European Coaster Club.
"One major upshot was that it would now be possible to send wooden coasters upside down.
The first example, Outlaw Run, saw the creation of something completely new.
This German theme park ride catapults riders from zero to 71 mph in 2.5 seconds, but it's regarded as a game changer for other reasons.
"For years companies tried to create a roller coaster with perfect track geometry -- meaning smooth -- and a perfect train," says Justin Garvanovic of the European Coaster Club.

"The problem was the overhead restraint, which could be uncomfortable.
"When [theme park supplier] Mack decided to build its first upside-down coaster in 2009, engineers also decided to design one without an overhead restraint.
The foundation for this attraction is actually a pile of dirt that was excavated during the construction of the moat around Sleeping Beauty's Castle -- a surprising start for what would become one of the world's most famous theme park rides.
"This is the first tubular steel continuous track roller coaster," says Tim O'Brien, vice president of communications at Ripley Entertainment.
"The tubular steel roller coaster is probably the biggest game changer in rides.

It allowed for larger rides and for more variation, with sharper turns, sharper slopes, loops and corkscrews."
On Journey to the Center of the Earth, mushroom forests, electrified gas clouds and lava monsters all help transport riders to another dimension.
"In my opinion, this Jules Verne-inspired volcano dark ride is the world's best themed experience," says Stefan Zwanzger, theme park expert and founder of thethemeparkguy.com.
"Nothing beats it.
It redefines the word 'immersiveness.'

"It's beautiful, it's suspenseful and thrilling.
I've never seen anyone disembarking looking disappointed."
Whether you're a fan of the boy wizard or wish he'd magic himself away to another planet, it's hard not to be impressed by this high-tech ride.
"Harry Potter and the Forbidden Journey was the first ride system to combine a tracked dark ride vehicle with a row of seats mounted to the end of an industrial robotic arm," says Craig Hanna, chief creative officer at theme park design firm Thinkwell Group.
A talking, moving character might not sound incredibly exciting but the animatronic Mr Lincoln character, which now forms part of the Great Moments with Mr. Lincoln audio-animatronic stage show, left audiences speechless when it first appeared.

"Mr. Lincoln, which was introduced by Disney at the 1964 New York World Fair, introduced the first generation of animated characters," says Dennis L. Speigel, president of International Theme Park Services.
"People hadn't seen anything like it -- they thought the animation was an actor in disguise.
This double, racing roller coaster is regarded as a crucial part of the renaissance of the roller coaster in the early 1970s -- a time referred to as the industry's second golden age.
"This ride was introduced in 1972 and was the first wooden roller coaster built since 1947," says Speigel.
"It was a game changer for the global industry in that it was the reintroduction of the wooden roller coaster.

Talking macaws, Maori gods and a magic fountain are all vital components of the Polynesian-themed animatronic show.
The fact that it remains one of Disneyland's most popular attractions is impressive considering that it opened in 1963.
"This was the world's first use of audio animatronics," explains Robert Niles, editor of ThemeParkInsider.com.
Gone but not forgotten (it closed in 1985), this retro theme park ride was the first to use Disney's patented Omnimover system.
"The Omnimover ride system allowed ride designers, for the first time, to change the direction that riders were facing as they moved through the ride," says Robert Niles at ThemeParkinsider.com.

"No longer did you simply face the ride vehicle in front of you.
Vehicles could swivel to redirect attention to animation elements located on either side of passengers, giving designers more opportunities to shape an immersive narrative experience."
This ride doesn't offer high speed thrills or frightening monsters -- unless you've got a teddy bear phobia.
It's the way passengers move around in their super-sized honey pots that sets the ride apart.
"Pooh's Hunny Hunt was a huge game changer because this was the first trackless ride and the first time ride designers were no longer forced to use a linear path," says Craig Hanna at Thinkwell Group.

"The vehicles split in different directions, they dance, they pull into scenes and pause.
This ride took three years to build but it appears the effort was worthwhile -- it's won several awards and has been awarded Amusement Today's Golden Ticket award for best dark ride for 12 consecutive years.
"One real game changer is the Spider-Man ride system and its multimedia technology," says Maximilian Roeser at Mack rides.