State Sen. Chris McDaniel said Friday on CNN's "New Day" that "the integrity of the process matters.
We believe on that night of June 24 there were thousands of irregularities and we've already found thousands of irregularities in the process."
And McDaniel said "we condemn any racist comments what so ever," when asked by CNN anchor Kate Bolduan about a bizarre Cochran campaign conference call on Wednesday that included borderline racist comments by an unidentified caller who appeared to be a supporter of the challenger's campaign.
McDaniel narrowly edged Cochran in a June 3 primary, but with neither man cracking the 50% threshold needed to win, the contest moved to the runoff three weeks later, which Cochran won by fewer than 7,000 votes.
His victory was aided by votes from African-American Democrats, who were actively courted during the runoff by Cochran's campaign and allied groups.
According to Mississippi law, voters are not required to register with a political party, and anyone who doesn't vote in a primary election can cast a ballot in either party's runoff.
Since the runoff, McDaniel has refused to concede and has repeatedly vowed to use every legal maneuver available to fight the results.
McDaniel alleges that some Democrats who voted in the runoff had previously cast a ballot in their party's Senate primary.
"Right now, we have found we have found more than 5,000 irregularities.
There are more than 19,000 absentee ballots we still haven't seen yet," McDaniel told CNN.
The Cochran campaign disputes McDaniel's claims, and numbers.
"The time has come now for the McDaniel campaign to put up or shut up.
If they have hard evidence, bring it forward.
But quit talking about exaggerated numbers that they know are not true," Cochran campaign spokesman and adviser Austin Barbour said Wednesday.
After last week's runoff, McDaniel's campaign dispatched volunteers across Mississippi to investigate the results in the state's 82 counties.
FreedomWorks, one of the anti-establishment groups that's been supporting McDaniel, dispatched activists to assist the campaign.
Separately, a conservative outside group filed a lawsuit in federal court asking for full access to the voting records in the primary and runoff elections.
McDaniel said on "New Day" that the process "won't drag out too much longer.
We have our people in the field.
They'll be working all next week to find the additional irregularities that we believe are out there."
He added, "If vote buying took place as alleged, we have an obligation to find it and root it out once and for all.
There's nothing wrong with that process.
It needs to happen for the integrity of the election process."
McDaniel pushed back allegations that he's contesting the runoff results to further his political career and pay off campaign debts.
And he urged the Cochran campaign to "join us in this process.
Why not go out there hand and hand and lets find the corruption if it exists."
But that offer didn't fly with the Cochran camp.
"It's obvious that Chris McDaniel doesn't care about the integrity of the process or he wouldn't be offering thousand-dollar bounties in e-mail fundraising blasts and flat out stating that the election was stolen and the election was a sham without any proof," Cochran spokesman Jordan Russell told CNN.
"So I think he needs to spare me the 'why won't they join us in protecting the integrity of the process.'
Chris McDaniel doesn't care anything about the integrity of the process.
Chris McDaniel cares about staying in the spotlight."
On Wednesday's Cochran campaign conference call, a person who appeared to be a McDaniel supporter asked "since black people harvested cotton, why is it OK to harvest their votes?
Why is it OK to harvest the votes of black people?"
Asked about those comments, McDaniel said "we condemn any racist comments what so ever.
But bear in mind, we have no idea who that person is."
If his legal challenge to the runoff results is turned down by the courts, McDaniel told CNN that "certainly we'll respect the court's decisions.
As to endorsing or going forward with Thad Cochran or whoever else, I'm going to have to make that call after all this is said and done."
CNN Political Editor Paul Steinhauser and Jeremy Diamond contributed to this report.