(CNN) -- Easter is upon us and, like clockwork, hordes of brightly wrapped chocolate bunnies and eggs have begun their domination of supermarket aisles.
While these sugar-filled options are sure to please the average eater, the true cocoa connoisseur might be left with a craving for something more.
Something better.
This list of the most unforgettable chocolate escapes across the world -- from soothing chocolate spa treatments to a chocolate molding masterclass -- guarantee a delicious Easter getaway.
Widely acclaimed as the planet's first chocolate-themed hotel, this heritage home-away-from-home has 15 unique rooms done up in rich mocha and caramel hues.
Events include everything from chocolate-shoe molding workshops to sleepovers with chocolate and wine pairings, do-it-yourself chocolate artwork (with white, dark and Belgian milk chocolate serving as paint material) and an in-room chocolate fountain.
Complimentary chocolate is delivered to each room daily.
We suggest packing pants with an elastic waistband.
Proclaiming itself "the sweetest place on earth," Hershey, Pennsylvania, is the headquarters of The Hershey Company, the popular Hersheypark amusement center and, of course, the official Hershey Hotel.
Dedicated to all things chocolate, the property's activities include family s'mores roasts, chocolate bingo and plenty of sugary seasonal events such as an annual Easter egg hunt.
The on-site Chocolate Spa offers treatments like the Whipped Cocoa Bath, the Chocolate Bean Polish and the Chocolate Fondue Wrap.
This picturesque luxury retreat is located along the verdant cocoa groves of the Caribbean island's oldest plantation.
Guests can enjoy beautiful views, a top-notch spa, plush four-poster beds and plenty of desserts made from on-site beans.
What sets the place apart as a chocolate-lover's haven is the unique Tree-to-Bar experience.
The excursion includes a tour through the estate's cocoa groves and a tutorial on how to select and pick ripe cocoa pods.
It culminates in a chocolate bar workshop and tasting.
This charming boutique hotel is home to the Pudding Club, an organization whose weekly meetings consist of a "Parade of Seven Puddings" and a vote-off for the top dessert.
In addition to several pudding-themed rooms, the inn caters to chocoholics -- there's a chocolate suite where even the pillows are designed to look like bonbons.
The real sugar rush comes from the Three Ways' special chocolate indulgence package, which includes a box of handmade chocolates, a chocolate-featured snack, dinner and breakfast, a chocolate treasure hunt and, finally, a chocolate cookery demonstration and tasting.
The Langham Boston's Café Fleuri is the place to be on a Saturday afternoon, when row upon row of sweet things are on offer at the all-you-can-eat chocolate bar.
For more than 25 years the dessert extravaganza has served up everything from chocolate croissant bread pudding and truffles to whoopee pies and cocoa-infused martinis, ensuring that no chocolate desire is left unsatisfied.
More than 200 pounds of chocolate are consumed at the Saturday event each week.
Kristen McKenzie works for HotelsCombined.com and specializes in hospitality industry trends.
The global hotel price comparison site searches, rates and availability from all major travel sites, is available in over 40 languages and has a database of 800,000 properties.