(CNN) -- Martin Scorsese's "Hugo" has more nominations, and among the nine contenders for best picture, only "The Tree of Life" has made less money at the box office, but ever since the New York Film Critics Circle named a black and white French silent film the best picture of the year back in November, "The Artist" has been the unlikely frontrunner in the Academy Awards race.
And there it has remained, picking up the lion's share of the top prizes across the awards season, from the various trade guilds and industry groups to the Golden Globes and the Baftas.
There has been a similar conformity even in those categories -- like best actress -- which "The Artist" won't win.
"The Help" star Viola Davis is the red-hot favorite in that race, which would extend Meryl Streep's losing streak to an unlucky 13 nominations since her 1983 win for "Sophie's Choice."
All of which could make Sunday's ceremony the most predictable -- and anti-climactic -- Academy Awards in recent memory.
And that's saying something!
Here's the breakdown of the major categories, who we think will win, who should win, and our selections for the most undeserved omissions from the list, the nominees that Oscar overlooked this year.
Overlooked: The industry didn't know what to make of "Margaret," Kenneth Lonergan's film was overshadowed by its long and troubled backstory -- so it chose to ignore it.
But this ragged, emotionally gripping drama was an unsung American masterpiece, a more probing study of grief and youth than "Extremely Loud," "The Descendants" or even "The Tree of Life".
Overlooked: Charlize Theron won the Oscar for playing serial killer Aileen Wuornos in "Monster," but her performance in "Young Adult" is even more courageous and more nuanced.
She dared to play a deeply damaged and highly dislikeable individual, and despite everything made us care.
And spare a thought for Kirsten Dunst, whose chances were probably scuppered by her "Melancholia" director Lars von Trier's foolish remarks in Cannes.
Overlooked: Pitt and Clooney both gave career-best performances this year, but so did Woody Harrelson, whose bigoted, self-loathing, alcoholic cop in "Rampart" didn't get the promotion he deserved.
Overlooked: Patton Oswald ("Young Adult") and Albert Brooks ("Drive") had every right to expect nominations this year, and frankly their Screen Actors Guild colleagues got it wrong.
Overlooked: Like comedy, sci-fi movies get a raw deal at awards time.
Duncan Jones made one of the smartest, most entertaining movies of the year with "Source Code."
Too bad nobody noticed.
Overlooked: Where to begin?
Well, "Once Upon a Time in Anatolia" for a start, the Turkish police procedural that's part road film, part existential comedy, all masterpiece.
Overlooked: Again, multiple omissions here, including "The Interrupters," "Senna" and "Nostalgia For the Light," any of which would have made a worthy winner.