A: I think it's time for me to make such a choice.
A: For safety.
A: Both.
A: Anything could happen.
A: At the time I didn't have a lot of information.

I wasn't allowed to call my friends from inside the embassy.
I couldn't keep up with news so I didn't know a lot of things that were happening.
A: The embassy kept lobbying me to leave and promised to have people stay with me in the hospital.
But this afternoon as soon as I checked into the hospital room, I noticed they were all gone.
A: I'm very disappointed at the U.S. government.

A: I don't think (U.S. officials) protected human rights in this case.
A: I would like to say to (President Obama): Please do everything you can to get our whole family out.
A: That's right.
A: (My wife) was tied to a chair by police for two days.
Then they carried sticks to our home, threatening to beat her to death.

Now they have moved into the house -- eating at our table and using our stuff.
Our home is teeming with security -- on the roof and in the yard.
They have installed seven surveillance cameras inside the house and built electric fences around the yard.
A: They said they would send her back (to Shandong) and people there would beat her.
A: I tend to think so.

A: Yes, most of it.
A: Yes.
I just switched my cell phone back on.
For a while, I couldn't make or receive calls.
Now I can receive calls but still can't dial out.

I feel my rights are already being violated.
A: Yes.
I called two embassy people numerous times.
A: I want them to protect human rights through concrete actions.
We are in danger.

If you can talk to Hillary (Clinton), I hope she can help my whole family leave China.
A: Yes, as soon as possible.
A: I feel very grateful.
I feel they are sincere in their concern, not just for show.
A: I feel a little like that.

A: I feel everyone focuses too much on their self-interest at the expense of their credibility.
A: Yes, we feel a lot of anxiety....
I told the embassy I would like to talk to Rep. Smith (Congressman Chris Smith) but they somehow never managed to arrange it.
I feel a little puzzled.
A: After seeing the reality, we both want to leave this place with our kids as soon as possible.

It's very dangerous for us.
A: Yes, worse.
A: She's still back home and others have moved in.
It used to be plainclothes security hired locally but now it's all policemen.
They've threatened to cut our power.

They are also digging something outside our yard.
It seems that they'll install something there.
A: They wanted to know how exactly he escaped.
Guangcheng is blind and we hired so many guards, how did we lose him and what exactly would he do once he was out?
A: After Guangcheng got out, the government was persuading me to stay here.

But they were also tightening their grip on me.
I became really worried.
If they ever get us back home, they would put us in an iron cage.
A: I know Sino-U.S. relations encompass many issues and they have to consider many things.
But the reality about my family is that our lives are in obvious danger.

If we stay here or get sent back to Shandong, our lives would be at stake.
Under such circumstances, I hope the U.S. government will protect us and help us leave China based on its value of protecting human rights.
A: We are prepared because our current situation is very dangerous...
They made many promises.
But right now, we can't even freely use our phone.

I can't even freely walk out of the hospital.
Friends can't visit us.
It just proves that our human rights are not being protected.
A: They have security guards here.
A: Yes.

They promised to stay here with Guangcheng -- that would give us some sense of security.
But we haven't seen anyone since we checked into this hospital room.
I was actually persuading Guangcheng to seek treatment in a hospital -- but I didn't know the embassy (people) were lobbying him to leave (the embassy).