Los Angeles (CNN) -- Cast members of the hit television show "Happy Days," who are suing CBS, accused the company of "despicable conduct" for not paying them for merchandising revenues.
The comment was made in court papers filed by the actors' attorney in response to a claim by CBS that the case had no merit.
"In this lawsuit, plaintiffs seek their share of the money collected by defendants as a result of the use of the actors' names and likenesses in connection with merchandising," the document, filed by attorney Jon Pfeiffer in Los Angeles Superior Court, said.
"Plaintiffs also want the jury to punish defendants for their despicable conduct."
Four members of the cast -- Marion Ross, Don Most, Anson Williams and Erin Moran -- along with the widow of Tom Bosley, sued CBS in April, claiming they have not been paid what they're owed for the worldwide sale of "Happy Days" merchandise.
"Happy Days" was originally on the air from 1974 to 1984.
Bosley died in October.
Under their contracts, the actors were supposed to receive 5% of net proceeds, or 2½% if their images were used in a group.
In interviews with CNN earlier this year, the four cast members said they decided to move forward after discovering "Happy Days" slot machines were popping up in casinos around the country in 2008.
"This is one of the most heavily merchandised shows ever," Most said.
"People loved 'Happy Days,' and it's been on everything from bedsheets to lunch boxes."
The suit asks for $10 million in damages.
The latest court filing follows a response by CBS to the suit last month.
The company, which owns the show, said the actors are "attempting to generate a lucrative litigation windfall by riddling their complaint with unsupported and overreaching causes of action" for fraud and breach of good faith.
CBS said this was "all done in a transparent attempt to introduce the specter of punitive damages" in the case.
The company disputed that it "concealed" its obligation to pay merchandising revenues.
Instead, it said the actors "were simply ignorant of, or slept upon their own rights.
That cannot serve as a basis for a fraud claim."
"It would place a tremendous burden on studios and production companies if every actor in the entertainment industry were required to call each company they ever worked for to inquire whether merchandising had occurred, and if so, whether any money is due," the court filing said.
In 2002 and 2003, Moran contacted CBS about merchandising revenues but was told nothing was owed, the filing states.
Since the lawsuit was filed, CBS has sent checks totaling $43,403 in merchandising proceeds to the four actors and Bosley's widow, Patricia.
Pfeiffer told CNN he was holding onto the checks because CBS could argue the case had been settled if they were cashed.
The company did not immediately respond to a CNN request for further comment about the court filing.
The actors said CBS claimed it did not pay them for the "Happy Days" slot machine proceeds due "to oversight."
However, the actors point out that Henry Winkler, who played The Fonz on the show, was paid for the use of his image on the slots.
Neither Winkler nor Ron Howard, who played Richie Cunningham on the show, are part of the lawsuit.
In addition, from 2008 to January 2011, CBS issued news releases announcing licensing agreements with 14 companies that include gift items, clothing, glassware and bar accessories, the court filing said.
But in revenue statements sent to Pfeiffer after the lawsuit was filed, CBS did not include any revenue from four of those companies.
Williams told CNN this week that the case is "like 'Happy Days' versus Goliath.
Here's one show and we're putting one of the biggest corporations in the world on the line to do the right thing.
I'm hoping this case gives visibility to not only help us, but to help thousands of other individuals in the entertainment business."