(CNN) -- As we gear up for the 71st annual Golden Globe Awards on Sunday, allow us to turn the focus to the real winners of the show: besties Tina Fey and Amy Poehler.
Ever since the pair impressed viewers with their hosting capabilities, there have been calls for them to helm any and all such events.
It seems like fans can't get enough of their hilarity, and all eyes will once again be on them to keep the Globes flowing.
In honor of the BFFs whose friendship and careers have been pretty impressive, here are five trivia facts about Tina Fey, Amy Poehler, and the duo that is TAmy (as we like to call them, because that's what you do with beloved Hollywood couples).
Fey will always be known as the woman who gave us the quirky character of Liz Lemon on "30 Rock."
But did you know that her real name is Elizabeth Stamatina Fey?
2) And just like Liz Lemon ...
She's a self-described "supernerd," having spent her teen years hanging out at game nights instead of dating.
In addition to being one of the stars of the late-night comedy show, the show's creator and producer Lorne Michaels hired Fey as a writer in 1995, and she would later become the show's first female head writer.
One of the greatest achievements we would like to thank her for is writing the script for the now almost cult classic 2004 film, "Mean Girls."
Fey also appeared in the movie as Ms. Norbury.
Fey is married to composer Jeff Richmond, who wrote music for her hit NBC show.
The couple are the parents of two daughters.
Poehler is one of the co-founders of New York's Upright Citizens Brigade Theatre, which sprang from the original improv group in Chicago where she got her start.
The theater offers affordable comedy shows and Poehler has been known to pop up here and there in more than a few.
The actress made her "SNL" cast member debut on the first show after 9/11.
Snagging a gig on "SNL" isn't easy, but Poehler managed to be promoted from bit player to full cast member in her first season -- the first woman to do so.
She may be a celeb, but Poehler isn't too big to take it to YouTube with her Amy Poehler's Smart Girls series, where she interviews interesting women and answers questions from fans.
The "Parks & Rec" actress has never won an Emmy, though she and Fey have competed against one another for best actress in a comedy series four times.
Neither has won in those years, though Fey won in 2008 before Poehler was nominated.
The aspiring actresses met in a 1993 improv class where Poehler was reportedly impressed by Fey's joke about Catherine the Great.
Both women take motherhood very seriously and have spoken lovingly of their roles as moms.
But while Fey has two daughters, Poehler has two sons.
An evening with the pair was once auctioned, raising $72,000 for charity.
The Golden Globes organizers were smart enough to lock Fey and Poehler in to a two-year contract to host the show.