Football fans around the world have been having their say on social media after FIFA announced the results of a slogan competition run by Korean car company Hyundai, one of the tournament's sponsors.
The "winning slogans," which will be emblazoned on team buses for the month-long event, are anything but in some fans' eyes.
News that the Australian team bus will wear the words "Socceroos: Hopping Our Way Into History!"
was met with derision.
"Whose mum came up with that ultra cheesy slogan?"

read one tweet.
Australian Football Federation CEO David Gallop took an equally dim view of it as the country's 30-man preliminary squad for Brazil was announced.
"Don't worry too much about the other slogans that you might have read about.
Just say, 'Go you Socceroos,' " Gallop said, The Australian reported.
Other national teams' nicknames have been put to better use, with Ghana's slogan perhaps being the highlight.

The quarterfinalists in South Africa four years ago will travel in a bus bearing the phrase, "Black Stars: Here to illuminate Brazil," while Ivory Coast's slogan, "Elephants charging towards Brazil!"
also has some fun with the team's alias.
Other teams, however, will have to make do with more enigmatic messages.
The U.S. stick with the motoring theme with "United By Team, Driven By Passion," while Dutch fans will hope the slogan "Real Men Wear Orange" can help steer the Netherlands all the way this time around after losing to Spain -- "Inside our hearts, the passion of a champion" -- in the 2010 final.
"In principle, at least, it was a good idea to run this competition ... but quite how significant and far-reaching having a slogan on the side of a bus is a moot point," Simon Chadwick, professor of Sport Business Strategy and Marketing at the UK's Coventry University, told CNN.

"Right now in sponsorship, and football generally, there is a big emphasis on fan engagement -- trying to get the fans as close as you possibly can to having an association with the sponsorship deal you are involved in," he told CNN.
"Effectively what you've got here is a collective view of what your country brand stands for.
By using these slogans you are positioning your country as a brand in a particular way.
But Chadwick has some sympathy for Gallop and the Australian team.
"How is it that a commercial partner of FIFA rather than the football association itself decided what would be on the side of the bus?"

he says.
"I think there is a broader issue about corporate influence on the World Cup and on football in this.
"It's an issue about joined-up thinking.
I can understand why FIFA has done this, but I don't think you can do it without involving the national association as well."
Here's the list in full.

Let us know what you think.
Brace Yourselves!
The Sixth Is Coming!
Chi Chi Chi!, Le Le Le!
Go Chile!

The Dream Of One Team, The Heartbeat Of Millions!
!
U.S.