(CNN) -- Charlie Sheen has filed a lawsuit against adult film actress Capri Anderson, claiming she tried to extort money from him following an October incident at New York's Plaza Hotel, a representative for the actor told CNN Monday.
Anderson,  whose real name is Christina Walsh, appeared with her attorney  on  ABC's "Good Morning America" Monday to speak out about an alleged  violent  encounter she had with Sheen at the hotel.
In  the interview, Anderson said Sheen sent her an apology through  a text message, and "offered money for her silence."
Anderson's  attorney, Keith Davidson told CNN Monday evening that a civil suit  would be filed "very soon" and that a  complaint against Sheen had been  filed Monday with the New York Police  Department.
However, a police  representative said no complaint had been  received as of 5:10 p.m.

Davidson defended his client's  right to receive compensation "for the damage to her body, to her  emotional state, and to her purse," but wouldn't go into details about  whether there had been any talk of a financial settlement.
ABC  questioned Anderson about why she called a girlfriend while locked in a  bathroom instead of calling the police.
She answered that she was in  shock, "I never expected the night to unfold the way it did," said  Anderson.
It is still unclear who called police to the hotel that  night.
"We're going to defend these charges vigorously and she will never get a check from Charlie Sheen," Galanter said.

Anderson said she was offered $3,500 to appear at a dinner party with the actor.
She said Sheen was drinking heavily and "grew more intense."
She said the actor "put his hands around her neck."
She also  accused Sheen of "snorting a white, powdery substance."
Galanter denied the allegations.

"He was searched, she was searched, the room was searched by the New York Police Department, it's a total fabrication," Galanter said.
"There was no cocaine, there was no white, powdery substance, she never saw him doing anything illegal."
Sheen spent several hours in a New York hospital in October after police responded to an early morning call about "an emotionally disturbed person" at The Plaza Hotel, a law enforcement source said.
Sheen's representative blamed an "adverse allergic reaction" to a medication for the hospitalization.
CNN's Alan Duke contributed to this report.