(InStyle.com) -- It's sad to see summer go, but fall brings one thing that always excites—season premieres!
Since viewers tune in for their favorite characters' wardrobes just as much as the plot twists, InStyle.com rounded up a list of some of the most fashionable TV shows of all time.
There was something for everyone in this dynamic foursome: From sex-pot Samantha (Kim Cattrall) and androgynous attorney Miranda (Cynthia Nixon) to fashionista Carrie (Sarah Jessica Parker) and Park Avenue princess Charlotte (Kristin Davis), costume designer Patricia Fields loaded the ladies up with designer duds and stylish touches.
Was there any pre-teen who didn't want Winnie's (Danica McKeller) hair, bangs, belts and boyfriend?
Whether you lived through that era or just wished you did, the the five-year series nailed '60s/'70s style perfectly, from Winnie's adolescent evolution to Karen's (Olivia D'abo) hippie-chic ways.

When a show centers on Manhattan life, there's a good chance you'll see some fashion.
Blair Waldorf (Leighton Meester) and Serena van der Woodsen's (Blake Lively) trendy mixed prints and couture frocks bring as much drama as their peers on the Upper East Side.
The entire gang shows off any girl's style wish list week to week, compliments of star stylist Eric Daman.
The classic crime-fighting trio gets a 2011 revamp—with a modern-day style refresh.
While we await the premiere episode this fall, star Minka Kelly has gushed over her wardrobe of high-end designs, from Gucci and Yves Saint Laurent—and we've seen enough trailers to know the entire cast is equally well-outfitted.

With the wiggle of her nose, Samantha (Elizabeth Montgomery) could make a closet full of sleeveless shift dresses look like a million bucks.
While the costumes husband Darren appeared in (and the antics the family members got them into) were comical and creative, Samantha plethora of pretty day dresses and romantic dressing gowns were a housewife's dream.
Despite a multiple crumbling relationships throughout the series' run, Grace (Debra Messing) never once missed a style beat (no sweatpants for this girl!
), while Will (Eric McCormack) kept a closet full of perfectly cut suits on hand.
Bonus: Jack (Sean Hayes) gave the ever-polished Grace a run for her money in sweater-vests and suits.

Tailored pencil skirts, divine cocktail dresses and absolutely impeccable hair and makeup are the foundation to the ultimate throwback show.
In fact, the styles are so coveted, Mad Men costume designer Janie Bryant created a capsule collection of similar styles for Banana Republic.
Sugarbaker Designs may have specialized in interiors, but the Southern belles at the helm showed their fashion savvy in vibrant poly-blends and contoured cheeks.
While the group's color-bright frocks and high-volume hair may look thoroughly '80s, these ladies were at the forefront of fashion at the time.
Anything but the stone ages!

Micro-minis, exposed shoulders, and statement necklaces showed off the ladies curves.
Paired with architecturally coiffed 'dos and a swipe of red lipstick, Wilma and Betty were perpetually primped and ready to go.
That suit, those gloves, those shoes, that purse.
Marlo Thomas played aspiring actress Ann Marie, one of the first portrayals of a career girl (as opposed to a spouse or homemaker), and she had the wardrobe of a wonderfully independent woman.
Her rainbow assortment of mod clothes was the perfect complement to her bubbly personality.

Copyright © 2011 Time Inc. All rights reserved.