Los Angeles (CNN) -- The drama that is Hollywood's awards season reaches its midpoint Sunday night with the 19th annual Screen Actors Guild honors -- the only industry awards that solely recognize performers.
Who will take the best actor SAG trophy -- "Lincoln" star Daniel Day-Lewis or Hugh Jackman for "Les Miserables"?
Both men won best-actor Golden Globes this month.
The SAG Awards, which are decided exclusively by actors, are distinguished from the Globes, which are chosen by a group of about 80 members of the Hollywood Foreign Press Association.
The five film SAG awards traditionally set the stage for the Oscars, voted by about 8,000 members of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, to be handed out four weeks later.
The SAG ceremony at the Shrine Exposition Center in Los Angeles also includes eight primetime television categories, a followup to the Globes and last fall's Emmys.
The live telecast aired on TNT and TBS should offer emotional moments, especially when Carl Reiner and Alec Baldwin present television legend Dick Van Dyke with the SAG 49th Life Achievement Award.
A win by "Lincoln" or "Les Miserables" in SAG's top category -- officially known as "Outstanding Performance by a Cast in a Motion Picture" -- would create important buzz for the film in the Academy Awards best-pic battle.
"Les Miserables," a big-screen adaptation of the smash Broadway musical, was given the Golden Globe for best comedy or musical movie, although "Lincoln" lost to "Argo" in the Globe's best drama film competition.
If "Argo" upsets again this weekend, it could influence Oscar voters when they cast ballots next month.
"Lincoln" and "Les Miserables" also hold center stage in the race for best lead actor after the Globes.
Daniel Day-Lewis, who portrayed Abraham Lincoln, and Hugh Jackman, who acted and sang as Jean Valjean, claimed the best-actor Globes for drama and musical films, respectively.
Their SAG competitors are Denzel Washington for "Flight," Bradley Cooper for "Silver Linings Playbook" and John Hawkes for "The Sessions."
This category pits Jessica Chastain, who played the CIA analyst who helped track down Osama bin Laden in Kathryn Bigelow's "Zero Dark Thirty," against Jennifer Lawrence, nominated for the romantic comedy "Silver Linings Playbook."
Chastain and Lawrence won the best drama and comedy actress Globes, respectively.
Naomi Watts, who played a mother who survived the 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami in "The Impossible," is also in the running for the SAG and Oscar best actress honors.
Marion Cotillard -- "Rust and Bone" -- and Helen Mirren -- "Hitchcock" -- round out the SAG competition but were not nominated for an Oscar.
All five supporting-actor nominees already own acting Oscars, including Tommy Lee Jones, who is nominated for his portrayal of Congressman Thaddeus Stevens in "Lincoln."
The others in this well-stocked SAG category include Philip Seymour Hoffman, who plays a spiritual leader in "The Master," Alan Arkin, for his role as a Hollywood film producer in "Argo," Robert De Niro for "Silver Linings Playbook," and Javier Bardem for his role in "Skyfall," the latest James Bond movie.
Bardem is the only one in this category not also competing for an Oscar this year.
Anne Hathaway, honored with the Globe for best supporting actress for her performance in "Les Miserables," faces tough competition for the SAG and Oscar awards from Sally Field, who portrayed first lady Mary Todd Lincoln in "Lincoln."
The other nominees are Helen Hunt for "The Sessions," Nicole Kidman for "The Paperboy" and Maggie Smith for "The Best Exotic Marigold Hotel."