(CNN) -- Celebrity chef Kathy Casey predicts two flavor trends in cocktails for 2010 will be fresh ginger and hibiscus.
Casey is known around the world for her expertise in mixing food and drinks.
Her company, Kathy Casey Food Studios®-Liquid Kitchen, has been consulting with a new nightclub at the Fairmont Abu Dhabi about its food and beverage menu.
While creating bubbly drinks in the Middle East, Casey substitutes sparkling date cider for apple cider.
This special holiday variation of my Green-Eye Daiquiri gets a flavor boost from quickly flamed fresh thyme, which releases the herbal aromatics and adds a little holiday theatrics!
The recipe makes one drink.
The "flaming agent" is green Chartreuse.
With its extracts of 130 plants, it adds a sophisticated and unusual flavor.
Please use caution and good judgment when crafting any flaming drink.
Bend the thyme sprigs and curl into the bottom of a heavy heat-proof double old-fashioned glass.
Drizzle or "spritz" the thyme with the green Chartreuse.
Carefully using a long match or lighter, ignite the green chartreuse.
Let it flame just for a few seconds until thyme gets a tiny singe on it.
Be careful glass does not get too hot -- have something available to smother the fire if it gets too big.
Then quickly add the simple syrup to extinguish the flames.
It is important to make it in this order as the simple syrup will put out the flames.
Then measure in the lime juice and rum.
Fill the glass with ice and stir well.
Garnish with a thyme sprig.
*Simple Syrup: Bring 1 cup water and 1 cup sugar to a boil.
Immediately remove from heat.
Cool.
Store refrigerated for up to two weeks.
Adapted from a Recipe from Sips & Apps, © 2009 by Kathy Casey.
I created this cocktail for the Fairmont Abu Dhabi's new nightclub and bar, the Chameleon.
which opens New Year's Eve.
This drink evokes updating classic cocktails with exciting twists.
This one incorporates two of my flavor trends for cocktails in 2010 -- fresh ginger and hibiscus.
Place the ginger in the bottom of a cocktail shaker.
(Do not add ice yet.)
Using a muddler, press down on the ginger a few times, giving it some force but not too much muscle.
You want to extract the essence of the ginger.
Measure in the gin, lemon juice and Hibiscus Syrup.
Add the egg white.
Fill cocktail shaker all the way to the top with ice.
Cap and shake very  vigorously.
You want to really foam up the egg white.
Strain into a large martini glass and garnish with candied ginger on a pick.
In a small sauce pan, bring the water, sugar and dried flowers to a boil.
Let boil for one minute.
Then remove from the heat and let steep for 30 minutes.
Strain the hibiscus into a large container.
Press the flowers well with a spoon to release all the juice.
Discard the solids.
Let the syrup cool and then place in a clean bottle or pitcher, cover and refrigerated up to two weeks.